The effects of three potential irreversible inhibitors of γ-aminobutyrate aminotransferase from Pseudomonas fluorescens were studied in order to throw more light on the nature of the active site of the enzyme. The thiol group reagent mercuric chloride inactivated the enzyme in a concentration-dependent manner. Inhibition kinetics were consistent with a simple bimolecular reaction. The second-order rate constant was 4.2 × 103 ± 0.61 M-1 see-1. In contrast to either of the substrates, the cofactor pyridoxal 5′-phosphate could protect the enzyme from the inhibition, suggesting cysteinyl residues are important for cofactor binding at the active site. p-Chloromercuribenzoic acid produced a similar inactivation of the enzyme. 4-Amino-2-fluorobutanoic acid also inhibited enzymic activity but in this case the inhibition was reversible and competitive with respect to γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The inhibitor constant (Ki) was 0.83 ± 0.44 mM. We found no evidence that this fluorinated analogue of GABA could act as a substrate for the enzyme.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in mammalian brain. The synaptic action of GABA is terminated by a sodium- and chloride-linked transport system. The GABA transporter is known as GAT and several isoforms have been identified. Many components of a GABA neurotransmitter system, including a GABA transport system, are present in channel catfish brain. Using a synaptosomal preparation of catfish brain, we examined the kinetics of inhibition of GABA transport by 4-amino-2-fluorobutanoic acid and several other structural analogues of GABA. The transport constant (Kt) for GABA uptake was 4.46 microM, and 4-amino-2-fluorobutanoic acid produced a noncompetitive type of inhibition (Ki = 12.5 microM). The most potent inhibitors were tiagabine (Ki = 0.23 microM) and (R,S)nipecotic acid (Ki = 2.2 microM), both of which exhibited competitive inhibition. Like 4-amino-2-fluorobutanoic acid, homo-beta-proline (Ki = 9.4 microM) inhibited noncompetitively. Other analogues exhibited competitive inhibition. These observations suggest that the GABA transport system in channel catfish is remarkably similar to that in mammalian brain.
INTRODUCTION ::: The small molecule 2-(5-(dimethylamino)naphthalene-1-sulfonamido)-2-(fluoromethyl)butanoic acid (NST732) is a member of the ApoSense family of compounds, capable of selective targeting, binding and accumulation within cells undergoing apoptotic cell death. It has application in molecular imaging and blood clotting particularly for monitoring antiapoptotic drug treatments. We are investigating a fluorine-18-radiolabeled analog of this compound for positron emission tomography studies. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We prepared the tosylate precursor methyl 2-(5-(dimethylamino)naphthalene-1-sulfonamido)-2-(tosyloxymethyl)butanoate (4) to synthesize fluorine-18-labeled NST732. Fluorination reaction of the tosylate precursor in 1:1 acetonitrile:dimethylsulfoxide with tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride proceeds through an aziridine intermediate (4A) to afford two regioisomers: 2-(5-(dimethylamino)naphthalene-1-sulfonamido)-2-fluorobutanoate (5) and methyl 2-(5-(dimethylamino)naphthalene-1-sulfonamido)-2-(fluoromethyl)butanoate (6). Acid hydrolysis of the fluoromethylbutanoate (6) isomer produced NST732. As the fluorination reaction of the tosylate precursor proceeds through an aziridine intermediate (4A) and the fluorination conceivably could be done directly on the aziridine, we have separately prepared an aziridine precursor (4A). Fluorine-18 labeling of the aziridine precursor (4A) was performed with [(18)F]tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride to afford the same two regioisomers (5 and 6). The [18F]2-((5-dimethylamino)naphthalene-1-sulfonamido)methyl)-2-fluorobutanoic acid (NST732) was then obtained by the hydrolysis of corresponding [18F]-labeled ester (6) with 6 N hydrochloric acid. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Two regioisomers obtained from the fluorination reaction of aziridine were easily separated by high-performance liquid chromatography. The total radiochemical yield was 15%±3% (uncorrected, n=18) from the aziridine precursor in a 70-min synthesis time with a radiochemical purity>99%. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Fluorine-18-labeled ApoSense compound [18F]NST732 is prepared in moderate yield by direct fluorination of an aziridine precursor.
Abstract 3-Chloro-2-fluorobut-2-en-4-olide ( 13 ) and 2-fluorobut-2-en-4-olide ( 14 ) were prepared by a six step synthesis starting from 1,2-dibromo-1,2-dichloro-1,2-difluoroethane ( 5 ). UV-initiated addition of 5 to ethylene afforded 1,4-dibromo-1,2-dichloro-1,2-difluorobutane ( 6a ) that was easily dehydrochlorinated to 4-bromo-3,4-dichloro-3,4-difluorobut-1-ene ( 7 ) and subsequently by chlorine addition to 1-bromo-1,2,3,4-tetrachloro-1,2-difluorobutane ( 10 ). Fuming sulfuric acid affected CH 2 –Br bond in 6a to afford 4-bromo-3,4-dichloro-3,4-difluorobutan-1-ol ( 8 ), while with 10 bearing stable terminal CH 2 –Cl group the reaction took place at the trihalomethyl group to give 2,3,4-trichloro-2-fluorobutanoic acid ( 11a ). Its sodium salt ( 11b ) cyclized in solution or thermally in the solid state to 2,3-dichloro-2-fluorobutan-4-olide ( 12 ) that by dehydrochlorination with tertiary amine gave new butenolide 13 or by didechlorination with zinc 2-fluorobut-2-en-4-olide ( 14 ). Hard nucleophiles as methanol and piperidine afforded products of conjugate addition, while soft phosphorus nucleophiles, triethyl phosphite or tributylphosphane, affected vinylic C–Cl and C–F bonds to give products of nucleophilic vinylic substitution.
