Reductive amination of a mixture of cyclohexanone/cyclohexanol in varying proportions has been carried out in the gas phase over zeolites Hβ and HY. The products identified were cyclohexylamine, N-cyclohexylcyclohexanimine, 2-cyclohexen-1-ylcyclohexanone and 2-cyclohexylcyclohexanone. The product distribution during the experiments indicates that cyclohexanol does not undergo reductive amination over acid catalysts; it only forms a condensation product with cyclohexanone. The reaction rates were obtained from experimental data and fit to a kinetic model derived for this reaction. The fits show that this reaction follows a Langmuir–Hinshelwood pathway by the adsorption of both cyclohexanone and the NH3 on the surface of the zeolite.
A procedure was established for the detection of irradiated chicken by GC/FID analysis of2- alkylcyclobutanones (RCBs) and hydrocarbons (HCs) using cleanup by Soxhlet extraction and Florisil chromatography.Fat extract was obtained from irradiated chickens by a Soxhlet apparatus. A concentrated fat extract containing200 mg of fat with 2 μg of n-eicosane as internal standard (IS) was applied to Florisil columns, which were deactivated by adding 17parts of water to 100 parts of adsorbent. The HCs were eluted in 60 ml of n-hexane. This eluate was concentrated and analyzed by GC/FID. After 150ml of n-hexane was eluted from the same column, RCBs were eluted with 120ml of 1% diethyl ether solution in n-hexane. This eluate was concentrated to 0.2ml and 0.1μg of 2-cyclohexylcyclohexanone (IS) was added to the mixture, which was analyzed by GC/FID. This process rendered it possible to detect HCs and RCBs efficiently and simultaneously.HCs and RCBs were detected in chicken meat irradiated at 0.5 kGy by GC/FID.
1. ::: ::: 2-Cyclohexylcyelohexanone is the basic product of the hydrodimerization of phenol, anisole, and phenetole in the presence of bifunctional zeolite catalysts containing palladium, nickel, rhodium, calcium, and lanthanum. The activity of the catalysts is a function of the type of cations added. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Hydrodimerization of phenol and its ethers takes place through the stage of hydrogenation of the starting substances to cyclohexanone on metallic sites with subsequent condensation to 2-cyclohexylidenecyclohexane on acid sites and hydrogenation of the latter to 2-cyclohexylcyclohexanone.
This paper describes an operationally simple deracemization process of aldehydes and ketones. This new crystallization-induced dynamic resolution (CIDR) protocol allows for nearly complete conversion of the racemic mixture into one enantiomer. Crystallization of imines derived from racemic ketones or aldehydes 1 and trans-(1R,2R)-1-amino-6-nitroindan-2-ol (2) afforded diastereomerically pure, crystalline imines 3. Biphasic hydrolysis of 3 then affords recovered 2 and enantiomerically enriched 1 in high yield and er (substrate, yield/ee: 2-methylcyclohexanone, 97%/92; 2-ethylhexanal, 94%/98; 2-methylcyclopentanone, 94%/98; 2-cyclohexylcyclohexanone, ND/98; 3-methyl-2-pentanone, ND/76). The scope, limitations, and industrial perspective of this process are discussed. This highly effective CIDR process is likely due to π-stacking of 2 and a hydrogen bonding of the imine with the free hydroxyl of 2 in the solid state.
The dehydrogenation reaction of 2-(1-cyclohexenyl)cyclohexanone was carried out in the presence of 5% palladium-on-charcoal at temperatures 280, 300, and 320 °C, the reaction time being 1/2—8 hr. o-Cyclohexylphenol and o-phenylphenol were obtained as dehydrogenation products, and dibenzofuran as the cyclization product via o-phenylphenol. In a short reaction time, 2-cyclohexylcyclohexanone was formed together with the dehydrogenation products. The compound disappeared, the amount of two phenols and dibenzofuran increasing with reaction time. The dehydrogenation process is discussed.
A method has been worked out for gas chromatographic determination of cyclohexyl hydroperoxide in products of cyclohexane oxidation on the industrial scale. The separations were carried out using a 0.5-m PTFE column packed with textured glass beads coated with polyethylene glycol 20M. Helium was used as a carrier gas. The temperature of the column was 70 or 80°C. The analysed samples contained up to 1% of cyclohexyl hydroperoxide, cyclohexane being the principal component. The calibration mixtures were of similar composition but with addition of 2-cyclohexylcyclohexanone as an internal standard. ::: ::: Gas chromatographic results were of about one third lower than the iodimetric ones, indicating the possible presence of peroxides.
In the Type II photochemistry of the conformationally fixed cyclohexanones, cis-4-t-butyl-2-n-propylcyclohexanone (1), 17β-acetoxy-2α-n-propyl-5α-oestran-3-one (6), 2α-n-propyl-5α-cholestan-3-one (9), and 17α-acetoxy-4α-n-propyl-5α-oestran-3-one (12), there is in each case a higher cyclobutanol : fragmentation ratio than that usually found for open-chain ketones. The effect, which is probably a consequence of the fragmenting bond being held at an angle unfavourable for continuous overlap, is more marked in the triplet state reaction, where the ratio for (1) is 73 : 27. In both states the effect is in fact quite small, probably because the reactions are very exothermic. In the case of the 4α-n-propyl steroid (12), the cyclobutanol : fragmentation ratio is larger for both the singlet and the triplet states than in the other cases, as a result of the presence of the ring B residue adjacent to the propyl group. Type I products from the steroidal ketones were not detected, and the Type I product from cis-4-t-butyl-2-n-propylcyclohexanone (1) is very largely of the ester and not the aldehyde kind. 2-Cyclohexylcyclohexanone (14) gives a high cyclobutanol : fragmentation ratio in both the triplet (ca. 80 : 20) and singlet states (64 : 36).
