Several new 4-thio-4,5-dihydro-2(3H)-furanones were prepared by the conjugate addition reactions of different thioacids, dithioacids, xanthates and dithiocarbamates to 2(5H)-furanones. When 5-methyl-2(5H)-furanone was used as the electrophilic substrate, the reaction was diastereoselective affording exclusively the cis-α,β-disubstituted butanolides. Some adducts were selectively hydrolysed to deliver a free thiol functionality. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2004)
Treatment of furoisoxazolidines with NaH leads to functionalized 3-amino-2(5H)-furanones through a new rearrangement pattern of the isoxazolidine nucleus. This process has been usefully exploited for the synthesis of enantiomerically pure (5R)-3-alkylamino-5-methyl-2(5H)-furanones.
Based on the syntetic method of optically active 3-alkyl-5-methyl-2(5H)-furanones from lactic acid, two pairs of chiral butenolides 3-tetradecyl-and 3-hexadecyl-5-methyl-2(5H)-furanone have been straightforwardly synthesized from methyl stearate and methyl palmitate respectively by aldol condensation with (R)-or(S)-O_tetrahydroyranyl lactal prepared from corresponding ethyl lactate and β-elimination
The chemical structures of two compounds formed from an L-dehydroascorbic acid (DHA) solution were identified. They were 3,4-dihydroxy-5-methyl-2(5H)-furanone (MW 130), brown color, and 2-furancarboxylic acid (MW 112), colorless. The DHA solution produced a browner color under nonoxidative conditions than under oxidative conditions. The former increased under nonoxidative conditions during storage. The latter consists of explicit white crystals, and its aqueous solution never becomes' colored during storage. It overlapped partly with the other brown pigment on a column chromatogram of Toyopearl HW-40F
Based on the synthetic method of optically active 3-alkyl-5-methyl-2(5H)-furanones from lactic acid, two pairs of chiral butenolides 3-tetradecyl- and 3-hexadecyl-5-methyl-2(5H)-furanone have been straightforwardly synthesized from methyl stearate and methyl palmitate respectively by aldol condensation with (R)- or (S)-O-tetrahydropyranyl lactal prepared from corresponding ethyl lactate and beta-elimination.
Abstract The pyrolysis-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (Py-GC/MS) analysis of ion-ex-changers prepared from starch by crosslinking with epichlorohydrin (E) in the presence of NaOH and water, with or without NH 4 OH and 3-chloro-2-hydroxypropyltrimethyl-ammonium chloride (CHMAC) was performed. The data were compared with results run on polymers formed from E, NH 4 OH and CHMAC in the absence of starch. The total ion chromatograms showed differences in the composition of degradation products. The pyrolysis of unmodified starch produced predominantly 2-furaldehyde, 3,5-dihydroxy-2-methyl-4H-pyran-4-one, 5-hydroxymethylfuraldehyde, 3-methoxy-5-methyl-2(5H)-furanone, 1,4-dideoxy- d -glycero-hex-1-en-pyranose-3-ulose, and levoglucosan. These products were formed to a much lower extent by pyrolysis of starch derivatives and were not formed from samples prepared in the absence of starch. However the chemical linkage of the poly(hydroxypropyl) matrix to starch or to the quaternary ammonium groups could not be proved by this method because none of the identified products had this type of linkage or indicates the linkage in analysed material. Only indirect proof of linkage can be concluded from the dramatic decrease of degradation products from starch in the modified starch samples.
Dehydration of 2-(2-arylethyl)-2-hydroxy-4-oxopentanoic acids 1 with hydrochloric acid/acetic acid, affords 3-(2-arylethyl)-5-hydroxy-5-methyl-2(5H)-furanones 4. Compounds of type 1 and 4 represent suitable precursors for the formation of pyridazin-3-ones 7 as they smoothly react with hydrazine. A new series of s-triazolo[4,3-b]pyridazin-3-ones 12 and tetrazolo[1,5-b]pyridazines 15 are obtained from the 3-chloropyridazines 11 upon treatment with semicarbazide and sodium azide, respectively. Reaction of 11 with phenyl- acetyl-hydrazine provides 3-benzyl-6-phenyl-8-(2-phenyl-ethyl)-s-triazolo[4,3-b]pyridazine 13via dehydrative cyclization of the intermediate 14 which was clarified to exhibit tautomeric equilibria between enol–hydrazine form A and keto–hydrazine form B by means of 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy. Attempts to synthesize 3-alloxy-pyridazines 18 by reacting 11 with sodium alloxide afford N-allyl compounds 17.
(S)-3-Acetyl-5-[(1E,3E)-1,3-hexadienyl]-4-hydroxy-5-methyl-2(5H)-furanone, known precursor for the synthesis of (S)-gregatin B, was synthesized in a fewer steps and higher overall yield starting from (R)-lactic acid.
The marine soft corals Sarcophyton trocheliophorum crude extracts possessed antimicrobial activity towards pathogenic bacterial strains, i.e. Bacillus cereus, Salmonella typhi, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Bioassay-guided fractionation indicated that the antimicrobial effect was due to the presence of terpenoid bioactive derivatives. Further biological assays of the n-hexane fractions were carried out using turbidity assay, inhibition zone assay and minimum inhibitory concentration for investigating the growth-inhibition effect towards the Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. The fractions were screened and the structure of the isolated compound was justified by interpretation of the spectroscopic data, mainly mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The structure was assigned as (5S)-3-[(3E,5S)-5-hydroxy-3-hepten-6-yn-1-yl]-5-methyl-2(5H)-furanone and was effective at concentrations as low as 0.20 mg/mL. The above findings, in the course of our ongoing research on marine products, may implicate that the profound anti-microbial activity of the S. trocheliophorum soft corals, inhabiting the red sea reefs, is attributed to the presence of growth-inhibiting secondary metabolites mainly terpenoids.
