Chemicals. Mefenamic acid, nabumetone, meloxicam sodium, tolfenamic acid, flurbiprofen, and naproxen were obtained from Sigma Aldrich (Steinheim, Germany). Allopurinol and lornoxicam were kindly provided by Nycomed (Roskilde, Denmark), olsalazine, celecoxib, and diclofenac by Pfizer Inc. (New York, NY), and acetylsalicylic acid, metamizole sodium, piroxicam, This study was financially supported by the Estonian Science Foundation Grant 6691.
Abstract A static analytical method was employed for the experimental measurement of the equilibrium solubility of meloxicam sodium salt (MLX) in supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO 2 ), at 303 K, 313 K and 323 K, and in a pressure range from 14.9 up to 25.5 MPa. Experimental equilibrium solubility (in terms of MLX mole fraction) was found to be between 4.41 × 10 −6 (at 323 K and 15.2 MPa) and 12.76 × 10 −6 (at 323 K and 15.2 MPa). To the best of our knowledge, these are the first MLX equilibrium solubility in scCO 2 data to be reported in literature. The obtained experimental data were successfully correlated with three semi-empirical density-based models (Chrastil, Bartle and Mendez-Santiago–Teja models) and with an equation-of-state (EOS) model: the Peng–Robinson cubic equation of state (PR-EOS) together with the conventional van der Waals mixing and combining rules. The best obtained average absolute-relative deviations (AARDs) were 2.7% and 5.3%, for the PR-EOS and for the semi-empirical models, respectively.
Abstract: The charge density analysis of meloxicam sodium monohydrate [sodium 4-hydroxy-2-methyl-N-(5-methyl-1,3-thiazol-2-yl)-1,1-dioxo-1$l^{6},2-benzothiazine-3-carboxamide monohydrate] was performed with high-resolution X-ray diffraction data measured at low temperature (90 K). The experimental results were compared with those derived from the corresponding periodic theoretical calculations at the B3LYP/6-31G** level of theory. The multipolar charge-density analysis highlights the regions of meloxicam which are the most electronegative. These regions correspond to those forming short electrostatic interactions with the Na + cation. The molecular conformation in the crystal is maintained by a strong intramolecular N−H … O=C hydrogen bond. The Na + cation interacts with as much as five neighboring oxygen atoms. The strong hydrogen bonds N/O−H … O/N, the Na … O short contacts and hydrophobic aromatic stacking between the two aromatic cycles constitute the most represented and enriched contact types and act as the driving force in the crystal packing formation. The crystal packing presents several meloxicam anion dimers but also one Na+ … Na+ repulsive interactions which are largely compensated by the electrostatic favorable attractions between anions and cations.
Inhibitors of COX-1 have been found to serve antagonistic roles in glioma cell survival and proliferation. Bernardi et al. (2013) described reduced viability of glioma cells through induced apoptosis, cell-cycle arrest, and increased differentiation following targeted administration of indomethacin-loaded lipid-core nanocapsules to C6 and U138-MG glioma cell lines [7] . Furthermore, synergistic sensitization of glioblastoma cells to TMZ was observed after administration of aspirin-loaded poly-lactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA) microspheres to LN229 and U87 glioma cell lines [8] . Of note, arachidonic acid metabolites, particularly those of the cyclooxygenase pathway, have been implicated in the growth and subsistence of human and rat brain tumors in vitro and in vivo, respectively [9] . Pathways in addition to those of COX-1 or -2 have been identified [10, 11] , suggesting a potentially wide variety of effects of NSAIDs on glioma cell lines. Examples include the upregulation of 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-PGDH, a key inactivator of prostaglandins) and the cell cycle regulator p21 in GBM cell lines treated with dissolved Diclofenac sodium and meloxicam sodium [10] .
Abstract The influences of a combination of different mechanisms of penetration enhancers on the penetration absorption properties of meloxicam sodium formulations through rat skin were investigated using response surface methodology. A uniform design was applied to prepare model formulations systematically that were composed of four independent variables: the content of ethanol ( x 1 ), propylene glycol ( x 2 ), menthol ( x 3 ), and azone ( x 4 ). The penetration rate (flux) of meloxicam sodium gel through rat skin was chosen as the response which had to be higher than 400 μg/h cm 2 the required flux of meloxicam gel to maintain a therapeutic concentration. The result showed optimal formulation could be obtained from this response surface methodology. Menthol had the greatest potential influence on the penetration absorption of meloxicam sodium, followed by azone, ethanol and PG, respectively. By in vivo study, meloxicam could be determined 1 h after topical administration and reached steady-state concentration at about 12 h. The bioavailability (%) of the optimal meloxicam sodium gel was about 50.1%.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the transdermal delivery of two meloxicam salts, meloxicam sodium and meloxicam potassium, enhanced by iontophoresis and/or electroporation in vitro with Wistar rat dorsal skin and human epidermal membrane (HEM) as barriers and in vivo with Wistar rat as the animal model. Iontophoresis and its combination with electroporation could significantly enhance the in vitro permeation of both salts, and two protocols had the same enhancement to each salt. Furthermore, the combination protocol had more enhancement to potassium salt than sodium salt. Interspecies difference was found in some electrical protocols. Electroporation might depress the transdermal delivery of meloxicam sodium while it might enhance that of meloxicam potassium. Iontophoresis, electroporation and their combination could increase the delivery of the two salts and result in significantly higher AUC of drug concentration to time in vivo. It was concluded that the in vitro and in vivo transdermal delivery of meloxicam potassium was more facilitated by the combination protocol than meloxicam sodium.
