Intravenous pretreatment of animals with sodium thiosulfate was observed to prevent the toxic effects of N, N'-ethylene-bis\[5-(2-bromoethylthio) valeramide\] (I; half-life, approximately four seconds), but not N,N'-ethylene-bis\[(2-chloroethylthio) acetamide\] (II; halflife, 15 minutes). Only the latter exists sufficiently long after i.v. injection to pass from the thiosulfate-rich extracellular water into the thiosulfate-free intracelluar compartment where it can produce toxic akylations. (Thiosulfate does not alter the half-life). Compound I, however, is toxic in the absence of thiosulfate indicating that its toxic alkylations are produced in the extracellular compartment. N,N'-bis-(2-chloroethyl)-N-methylamine (HN2) was observed to pass from the extracellular water more rapidly than its charged form N-2-chloroethyl-N-methylaziridinium chloride (III). The latter is more toxic and most susceptible to thiosulfate pretreatment. These observations also suggest an extracellular location as the site of the toxic reaction.
This thesis describes the use of high-field n.m.r. spectroscopy, in part combined with stable isotope labelling, to study the solution chemistry of nitrogen mustard (2-chloro-(N-2-chloroethyl)-N-methylethanamine). Reactions with a range of nucleophiles were monitored by ¹H n.m.r. spectroscopy which demonstrated the generation of N-2-chloroethyl-N-methylaziridinium chloride from nitrogen mustard and step-wise substitution of nitrogen mustard except where polymerisation or hydrolysis occurred. The ¹H n.m.r. spectrum of the N-2-chloroethyl-N-methyl- aziridinium ion was resolved and fully assigned. The intermediacy of this species in reactions of nitrogen mustard is implied by experiments in which identical products are derived from a given nucleophile when added to either the aziridinium ion or the parent nitrogen mustard. Intermediacy of two successive aziridinium ions in alkylation of nucleophiles by nitrogen mustard was confirmed by examination of the 13c label distribution in products arising from alkylation of [2,2'-13c]-2-chloro-(N-2-chloro- ethyl)-N-methylethanamine. Applying a consideration of the stereochemistry of ring closure to N-methylpiperazine arising from alkylation of ammonia demonstrated that the observed 13c label distribution could only arise if aziridinium ion formation was irreversible. The isotope effect on ring opening of the aziridinium ion was measured under a range of reaction conditions for several different nucleophiles. ::: Observation of the reaction between nitrogen mustard and methionine was simplified by the use of (S)-[13cH3]-methionine to demonstrate rapid formation of sulphonium salts and a slow breakdown to homocysteine and 2-methylthio-N-[2-(methylthio)ethyl]-N-methylethanamine. ::: The synthesis of [2,2'-¹3C]-2-chloro-(N-2-chloro- ethyl)-N-methylanamine is described and a general synthesis of isotopically enriched nitrogen mustards is suggested based on this route. Efficient syntheses of (S)-[¹3CH₃]- methionine, (S)-[C²H₃]- methionine, (S) -ɑ - ²H-alanine and (S0 – (1-¹3C] - leucine are also described.
Abstract : Interpretation of experiments with short-lived sulfur and nitrogen mustards indicates that the toxic effects of these agents arise from extracellular or cell surface reactions rather than from exclusive alkylation of intranuclear deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). Intravenous pretreatment of animals with sodium thiosulfate was observed to prevent the toxic effects of N, N'-ethylene-bis(5-(2-bromoethylthio) valeramide), (compound I, half life = approximately 4 seconds), but the pretreatment was not effective with N, N'-ethylene-bis-((2-chloroethylylthio)acetamide) (compound II, half life = 15 minutes). This suggests that only compound II exists sufficiently long after iv injection to pass from the thiosulfate-rich extracellular water into the thiosulfate-free intracellular compartment where it can produce toxic alkylations. The observation that compound I is toxic in the absence of thiosulfate suggests that its toxic alkylations are produced in the extracellular compartment. A common target could be the plasma membranes. N, N'-bis-(2-chloroethyl)-N-methylamine (HN2) was observed to pass from the extracellular water more rapidly than does its charged form N-2-chloroethyl-N-methylaziridinium chloride (compound III). Compound III is more toxic than HN2 and is most susceptible to thiosulfate pretreatment. These observations also suggest the cell plasma membranes as a possible site of the toxic reaction. (Author)
Reactions of the nitrogen mustard drug 2-chloro-N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-methylethanamine with nucleophiles in aqueous solution have been studied by 1H and 13C n.m.r. spectroscopy. Conditions have been devised for converting the mustard into the N-2-chloroethyl-N-methylaziridinium ion which has been characterised by 1H n.m.r. spectroscopy. To assist the studies of reactions of the mustard by 13C n.m.r. spectroscopy, it has been prepared labelled at both C-2 atoms by 13C. It is shown that reactions of the mustard with strong nucleophiles (e.g. thiosulphate) proceed to a product of disubstitution, without the aziridinium ion being detected spectroscopically, although its intermediacy is inferred by examining the distribution of 13C in product from 13C-labelled mustard. Less reactive nucleophiles (e.g. thiourea) yield a product of disubstitution via spectroscopically detected intermediates (aziridinium ion and monosubstituted intermediate). Relatively weak nucleophiles (e.g. guanosine) did not give detectable products of substitution; cis- and trans-NN′-2-chloroethyl-NN′-methylpiperazinium dichloride were formed via the aziridinium ion. The reaction of the mustard with excess of ammonia gives a 3:2 ratio of 2-amino-N-(2-aminoethyl)-N-methylethanamine and N-methylpiperazine. The distribution of 13C label in these products derived from 13C-labelled drug shows that the triamine is formed via aziridinium intermediates, whilst the piperazine arises via intramolecular cyclisation of the intermediate 2-amino-N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-methylethanamine.
