Mousouchiku extract is prepared from the bamboo-sheath of Phyllostachys heterocycla MITF. (Poaceae), and is registered as a food manufacturing agent in the List of Existing Food Additives in Japan. This study describes the chromatographic evaluation of characteristic components of this extract to obtain the chemical data needed for standardized specifications. We isolated 12 known compounds from this extract: 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furfural, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, trans-p-coumaric acid, trans-ferulic acid, N,N'-diferuloylputrescine, 4'-hydroxypropiophenone, β-arbutin, tachioside, isotachioside, 3,4'-dihydroxypropiophenone 3-O-glucoside, koaburaside, and (+)-lyoniresinol 9'-O-glucoside. Moreover, a new propiophenone glycoside, propiophenone 4'-O-(6-β-D-xylosyl)-β-D-glucoside (propiophenone 4'-O-primeveroside), was isolated. The structure of each isolated compound was elucidated based on NMR and MS data or direct HPLC comparisons with authentic samples. Among the isolates, (+)-lyoniresinol 9'-O-glucoside was found to be the major ingredients of the extract as observed using HPLC analysis. However, 2,6-dimethoxy-1,4-benzoquinone, which is considered the main constituent of mousouchiku extract, was only detected as a trace constituent and not isolated in this study.
1. The trans-epoxide of diethylstilboestrol and its pinacolone were synthesized chemically and the pinacolone shown to be formed from the epoxide by a non-enzymic process. 2. [14C]Diethylstiboestrol epoxide was converted by rat liver microsomal fraction into 4'-hydroxypropiophenone by a new type of cleavage reaction involving mono-oxygenase. Conditions for the formation of this metabolite and also water-soluble products were investigated together with the effect of inhibitors. A sex-difference in the conversion of diethylstilboestrol epoxide into 4'-hydroxypropiophenone and to polar and water-soluble products was observed. 3. Diethylstilboestrol epoxide was found to be a relatively stable compound that did not form a glutathione conjugate readily without further microsomal activation. A purified preparation of epoxide hydratase did not enhance its rate of conversion into the pinacolone. 4. Diethylstilboestrol epoxide was found to have about one-tenth the oestrogenic activity of diethylstilboestrol as measured by the increase in uterine weight or the induction of peroxidase in immature rat uteri. It was inactive as a mutagen when tested for its ability to inhibit bacteriophage phi X174 DNA viral replication. 5. The possible role of diethylstilboestrol epoxide as an intermediate in the metabolism of diethylstilboestrol and in mediating the harmful effects of this synthetic estrogen is discussed.
Anaerobic degradation of phenol, p-cresol, 4-n-propylphenol (n-PP), 4-i-propylphenol (i-PP), 4-n-butylphenol (n-BP) and 4-sec-butylphenol (sec-BP) was observed in a paddy soil supplemented with nitrate. We detected the metabolites 4'-hydroxypropiophenone (HPP) from n-PP, 4-i-propenylphenol from i-PP, and 4-(1-butenyl)phenol and 4'-hydroxybutyrophenone (HBP) from n-BP. Compared with the original soils, Betaproteobacteria became predominant in the microcosm during the degradation of phenol and p-cresol whereas no remarkable change was observed in the community degrading propylphenols and butylphenols. The microcosm, however, did not degrade 4-t-butylphenol (t-BP), 4-t-octylphenol (t-OP) and 4-n-octylphenol (n-OP). Paddy soil supplemented with sulfate or iron (III) as electron acceptors did not degrade phenol and 4-alkylphenols with the exception of the degradation of p-cresol in sulfate-reducing conditions. It was demonstrated for the first time that anaerobic microbial degradation of alkylphenols, in a paddy soil supplemented with nitrate as an electron acceptor, occurred via oxidation of the alpha carbon in the alkyl chain.
In vivo biotransformation of diethylstilbestrol (DES) was studied by radio-GLC and GLC-mass spectrometry using both radioactively and deuterium-labeled DES. Among the urinary and biliary metabolites identified in intact Wistar rat and Syrian golden hamsters are dienestrol and hydroxy and methoxy derivatives of dienestrol and DES. The identification of 4'-hydroxypropiophenone as a urinary metabolite of DES in the rat is consistent with the hypothesis that dienestrol is formed via an epoxide-diol pathway. Some of the metabolites imply electrophilic reactivity according to their chemical structure and may represent proximate carcinogens of DES. In humans, dienestrol and hydroxy dienestrol constitute the major urinary DES metabolites in men and were also identified in the urine of a woman. Considerable species differences in DES metabolism between humans and rats were found with regard to the route of excretion and the pattern of urinary metabolites.
Oxidation of diethylstilbestrol (I) by peroxidases from horseradish or mouse uterus in the presence of H2O2 in vitro leads to Z,Z-dienestrol (II) and to a number of cleavage products, five of which were identified by g.l.c.-mass spectrometry and comparison with authentic reference compounds as 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (III), 4'-hydroxypropiophenone (IV), 1'(4'-hydroxyphenyl)-propan-1-on-2-ol (V), 1-(4'-hydroxyphenyl)-propan-1,2-dione (VI) and 3-(4'-hydroxyphenyl)-hex-2-en-4-one (VII). The formation of 3-(4'-hydroxyphenyl)-hex-2-en-4-one (VII) from diethylstilbestrol is the first reported example of a metabolic dearylation reaction. The amount of cleavage products depends on the excess of H2O2 used. The amount of H2O2 does not affect the extent of binding of diethylstilbestrol to DNA as mediated by peroxidases. The syntheses of V, VI and VII are described.
