Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common and lethal type of primary brain tumor with a very poor prognosis. Current therapies for GBM remain palliative and advances made in decades have resulted in only a slight improvement in treatment outcome. Exploring new therapeutic agents for GBM treatment, therefore, is of prime importance. In the present study, we performed a high-throughput screening for GBM cell growth and invasion, with an attempt to identify novel potential anti-GBM agents. An annotated compound library (LOPAC1280) of 1,280 pharmacologically active compounds was screened and ten compounds were validated and identified as inhibitors of GBM cell growth and invasion. Four of them, i.e., 6-nitroso-1,2-benzopyrone, S-(p-azidophenacyl) glutathione, phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride, and SCH-28080 have not been implicated in GBM cell growth and invasion previously, suggesting that they may serve as novel potential therapeutic agents for GBM treatment. In conclusion, novel inhibitors of GBM cell growth and invasion were identified in the present study, which provides a basis for the development of therapies for GBM, and may shed light on the molecular mechanisms underlying GBM cell behavior.
Abstract ::: 6-Nitroso-1,2-benzopyrone and 3-nitrosobenzamide, two C-nitroso compounds that inactivate the eukaryotic nuclear protein poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase [NAD+:poly(adenosine diphosphate D-ribose) ADP-D-ribosyltransferase, ADPRT, EC 2.4.2.30] at one zinc-finger site, completely suppressed the proliferation of leukemic and other malignant human cells and subsequently produced cell death. Tumoricidal concentrations of the drugs were relatively harmless to normal bone marrow progenitor cells and to superoxide formation by neutrophil granulocytes. The cellular mechanism elicited by the C-nitroso compounds consists of apoptosis due to DNA degradation by the nuclear calcium/magnesium-dependent endonuclease. This endonuclease is maintained in a latent form by poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation, but inactivation of ADPRT by C-nitroso drugs derepresses the DNA-degrading activity. ADPRT is thus identified as a critical regulatory enzyme component of a DNA-binding multiprotein system that plays a central function in defining DNA structures in the intact cell.
6-Nitroso-1,2-benzopyrone, an oxidation product of 6-amino-1,2-benzopyrone, binds to the DNA-recognizing domain of the ADP-ribose transferase protein and preferentially destabilizes Zn2+ from one of the two zinc finger polypeptide complexes present in the intact enzyme, as determined by the loss of 50% of 65Zn2+ from the 65Zn(2+)-isolated protein molecule, coincidental with the loss of 99% of enzymatic activity. The 50% zinc-deficient enzyme still binds to a DNA template, consisting of a 17-mer DNA primer annealed to M13 positive strand, resulting in the blocking of DNA synthesis by the Klenow fragment of Pol I. Auto-poly-ADP-ribosylated ADP-ribose transferase, which is the probable physiological state of this protein in intact cells, does not bind to primer-template DNA and does not block DNA synthesis by the Klenow fragment. On the basis of this in vitro model it is proposed that molecules which inhibit or inactivate ADP-ribose transferase in intact cells can induce significant alteration in DNA structure and replication.
Rapid ligand-induced trafficking of glucocorticoid nuclear hormone receptor (GR) from the cytoplasm to the nucleus is an extensively studied model for intracellular retrograde cargo transport employed in constructive morphogenesis and many other cellular functions. Unfortunately, potent and selective small-molecule disruptors of this process are lacking, which has restricted pharmacological investigations. We describe here the development and validation of a 384-well high-content screening (HCS) assay to identify inhibitors of the rapid ligand-induced retrograde translocation of cytoplasmic glucocorticoid nuclear hormone receptor green fluorescent fusion protein (GR-GFP) into the nuclei of 3617.4 mouse mammary adenocarcinoma cells. We selected 3617.4 cells, because they express GR-GFP under the control of a tetracycline (Tet)-repressible promoter and are exceptionally amenable to image acquisition and analysis procedures. Initially, we investigated the time-dependent expression of GR-GFP in 3617.4 cells under Tet-on and Tet-off control to determine the optimal conditions to measure dexamethasone (Dex)-induced GR-GFP nuclear translocation on the ArrayScan-VTI automated imaging platform. We then miniaturized the assay into a 384-well format and validated the performance of the GR-GFP nuclear translocation HCS assay in our 3-day assay signal window and dimethylsulfoxide validation tests. The molecular chaperone heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) plays an essential role in the regulation of GR steroid binding affinity and ligand-induced retrograde trafficking to the nucleus. We verified that the GR-GFP HCS assay captured the concentration-dependent inhibition of GR-GFP nuclear translocation by 17-AAG, a benzoquinone ansamycin that selectively blocks the binding and hydrolysis of ATP by Hsp90. We screened the 1280 compound library of pharmacologically active compounds set in the Dex-induced GR-GFP nuclear translocation assay and used the multi-parameter HCS data to eliminate cytotoxic compounds and fluorescent outliers. We identified five qualified hits that inhibited the rapid retrograde trafficking of GR-GFP in a concentration-dependent manner: Bay 11-7085, 4-phenyl-3-furoxancarbonitrile, parthenolide, apomorphine, and 6-nitroso-1,2-benzopyrone. The data presented here demonstrate that the GR-GFP HCS assay provides an effective phenotypic screen and support the proposition that screening a larger library of diversity compounds will yield novel small-molecule probes that will enable the further exploration of intracellular retrograde transport of cargo along microtubules, a process which is essential to the morphogenesis and function of all cells.
