Banknote evidence is often submitted after a suspect has attempted to disguise or remove red dye stain that has been released because of an anti-theft device that activates after banknotes have been unlawfully removed from bank premises. Three chlorinated compounds have been synthesized as forensic chemical standards to indicate bank security dye bleaching as a suspect's intentional method for masking a robbery involving dye pack release on banknotes. A novel, facile synthetic method to provide three chlorinated derivatives of 1-(methylamino)anthraquinone (MAAQ) is presented. The synthetic route involved Ultra Clorox bleach as the chlorine source, iron chloride as the catalyst, and MAAQ as the starting material and resulted in a three-component product mixture. Two mono-chlorinated isomers (2-chloro-1-(methylamino)anthraquinone and 4-chloro-1-(methylamino)anthraquinone) and one di-chlorinated compound (2,4-dichloro-1-(methylamino)anthraquinone) of the MAAQ parent molecule were detected by gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS), and subsequently isolated by liquid chromatography (LC) with postcolumn fraction collection. Although GC-MS is sensitive enough to detect all of the chlorinated products, it is not definitive enough to identify the structural isomers. Liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy was utilized to elucidate structurally the ortho- and para-mono-chlorinated isomers once enough material was properly isolated. A reaction mechanism involving iron is proposed to explain the presence of chlorinated MAAQ species on stolen banknotes after attempted bleaching. Language: en
The ability to seek out the source of a chemical signal is vital for many life forms, from single-celled organisms, such as white blood cells (which are able seek out pathogens due to the chemical messages they release), to complex communities, such as beehives (which requires individual units of bees to respond to a chemical signal in order to perform specific tasks). Inspired by these natural examples, herein we have developed signal (A) and seeker (B) droplets that are capable of finding each other in an open intricate fluidic network. The signal droplet (A) releases a chemical signal, which creates a chemical gradient inside the channel; in response to this signal, the seeker droplet (B) is able to chemotactically find the signal droplet (A) and merge with it at the location of droplet A. ::: The droplets in this work are composed of ionic liquids (ILs). The signal droplet is constituted of trihexyl(tetradecyl)phosphonium dicyanamide [P6,6,6,14][DCA] containing 1M cupric nitrate (Cu(NO3)2). The seeker droplet is composed of trihexyl(tetradecyl)phosphonium chloride [P6,6,6,14][Cl] and a small amount of red dye (1-(methylamino)anthraquinone), which is purely added for visualisation. The unidirectional movement of the seeker droplet is due to the triggered release of the [P6,6,6,14]+, a very efficient cationic surfactant, which is a constituent of the IL droplet. In the presence of an ionic strength gradient in the aqueous phase, an asymmetrical surface tension gradient is created, leading to Marangoni like flows, which drive the droplet from areas of low surface tension towards areas of high surface tension [1]. When the signal droplet (A) is placed onto a solution of 10-2 M sodium hydroxide (NaOH), Cu(NO3)2 diffuses from the droplet into the aqueous phase and creates an ionic strength gradient throughout the fluid network. Due to the poor solubility of the DCA anion, no [P6,6,6,14]+ is released from the signal droplet (A) and thus it remains stationary. Therefore when both the signal droplet (A) and seeker droplet (B) are placed onto a solution of 10-2 M NaOH, the seeker droplet will autonomously seek out the signal droplet.
The solubility of disperse dyes in supercritical CO2 was measured for three anthraquinone dyes (i.e., Celliton fast blue B, 1-amino-2-methylanthraquinone, and 1-(methylamino)anthraquinone) and two azo dyes (i.e., disperse red 1 and 4-[4-(phenylazo)phenylazo]-o-cresol). Measurement was carried out at 313.15 K, 353.15 K, and 393.15 K and (10, 15, 20, and 25) MPa in an autoclave-type phase equilibrium apparatus. The data were modeled by a semiempirical correlation. For all the dyes, the solubility increased with increasing density of supercritical CO2. The anthraquinone dyes show higher solubility than the azo dyes.
The design and development of photoinitiating systems applicable to UV or even visible light delivered from light-emitting diodes (LEDs) has been attracting increasing attention due to their great potential applications in various fields. Compared to the strategy of synthesizing novel compounds, the exploration of existing chemicals with interesting photochemical/photophysical properties for their usage as photoinitiators is more appealing and easily commercialized. Nevertheless, a number of compounds such as monoamino-substituted anthraquinone derivatives, which are intensively investigated for their photophysical and photochemical properties, have seldom been studied for their roles as photoinitiators under LED irradiation. Herein, three monoamino-substituted anthraquinone derivatives, that is, 1-aminoanthraquinone, 1-(methylamino)anthraquinone and 1-(benzamido)anthraquinone, are studied for their potential as photoinitiators. The photoinitiation mechanism of these monoamino-substituted anthraquinone derivatives, when combined with iodonium salt, is first clarified using computational quantum chemistry, fluorescence, steady-state photolysis, and electron spin resonance spin-trapping techniques. Then, their photoinitiation ability for the cationic photopolymerization of epoxide and divinyl ether monomers is also investigated.
