Abstract Fixed wavelength fluorescence (FF) and synchronous fluorescence scanning (SFS) of fish bile are commonly used methods to analyze for exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) from petrogenic and pyrogenic sources. A range of conjugated oxidation products from petrogenic PAHs are normally accumulated in the bile. Therefore their detection is important. In the present study, phenanthrene and naphthalene metabolites, formed in vivo in Atlantic cod ( Gadus morhua ), were used to study the response of these compounds in both FF and SFS analyses. The selected synthetic metabolites were (−)-(1 R ,2 R )-1,2-dihydrophenanthrene-1,2-diol and (−)-(1 R ,2 R )-1,2-dihydronaphthalene-1,2-diol. The study findings showed that the recommended excitation and emission wavelengths for FF analysis do not comprise the maximum emission wavelengths for these metabolites, providing an incorrect estimation of the PAH exposure. A method developed in our laboratory for the synthesis of (−)-(1 R ,2 R )-1,2-dihydrophenanthrene-1,2-diol is also described.
Abstract Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are well known contaminants, ubiquitously present in the habitat and spawning areas for Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua). The Atlantic cod is a key species and a globally important food source, thus continuous monitoring of PAHs is considered highly valuable to ensure ecosystem sustainability and human food safety. PAH adducts to plasma proteins are applied as sensitive biomarkers of PAH exposure in humans and other species, thus the presence of PAH protein adducts in Atlantic cod plasma was investigated to identify PAH protein adduct biomarker candidates of exposure to PAHs. Blood plasma samples were collected from Atlantic cod (n = 66) one week after exposure by intramuscular injection of single PAHs (i.e. naphthalene and chrysene), and their corresponding dihydrodiol metabolites (i.e. (-)-(1R,2R)-1,2-dihydronaphthalene-1,2-diol and (-)-(1R,2R)-1,2-dihydrochrysene-1,2-diol). The samples were analyzed by shotgun tandem mass spectrometry (MS) and the resulting MS data were analyzed in Byonic™ to screen for proteins susceptible to adduct formation with naphthalene and chrysene. Furthermore, a wildcard modification search was performed to obtain additional information regarding potential modifications other than the targeted metabolites. The amino acid adductation sites and the metabolites involved in PAH adductation are reported. Forty-four proteins were found to bind PAHs. Alpha-2-macroglobulin-like proteins, apolipoproteins B-100-like proteins and an alpha-2-HS-glycoprotein were detected with the highest number of bound PAHs. This first insight into PAH protein adducts of Atlantic cod plasma generates valuable knowledge for the development of highly sensitive biomarkers of PAH exposure.
The monitoring of the presence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) in the aquatic environment is a worldwide activity since some of these compounds are well-established carcinogens and mutagens. Contaminants in this class are in fact regarded as priority hazardous substances for environmental pollution (Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC). In this study, Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) was selected to assess in vivo effects of two PAH and their first metabolic products, namely, the corresponding trans-dihydrodiols, using biological markers. Fish were exposed for 1 wk to a single PAH (naphthalene or chrysene) and its synthetic metabolites ((1R,2R)-1,2-dihydronaphthalene-1,2-diol and (1R,2R)-1,2-dihydrochrysene-1,2-diol) by intraperitoneal injection in a continuous seawater flow system. After exposure, PAH metabolism including PAH metabolites in bile and ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity, oxidative stress glutathione S-transferases (GST) and catalase (CAT) activities, and genotoxicity such as DNA adducts were evaluated, as well as general health conditions including condition index (CI), hepatosomatic index (HSI), and gonadosomatic index (GSI). PAH metabolite values were low and not significantly different when measured with the fixed-wavelength fluorescence screening method, while the gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS) method showed an apparent dose response in fish exposed to naphthalene. DNA adduct levels ≥0.16 × 10(-8) relative adduct level (RAL) were detected. It should be noted that 0.16 × 10(-8) RAL is considered the maximal acceptable background level for this species. The other biomarkers activities of catalase, GST, and EROD did not display a particular compound- or dose-related response. The GSI values were significantly lower in some chrysene- and in both naphthalene- and naphthalene diol-exposed groups compared to control.
5-(Ethylsulfonyl)-2-(naphthalen-2-yl)benzo[d]oxazole (ezutromid, 1) is a first-in-class utrophin modulator that has been evaluated in a phase 2 clinical study for the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Ezutromid was found to undergo hepatic oxidation of its 2-naphthyl substituent to produce two regioisomeric 1,2-dihydronaphthalene-1,2-diols, DHD1 and DHD3, as the major metabolites after oral administration in humans and rodents. In many patients, plasma levels of the DHD metabolites were found to exceed those of ezutromid. Herein, we describe the structural elucidation of the main metabolites of ezutromid, the regio- and relative stereochemical assignments of DHD1 and DHD3, their de novo chemical synthesis, and their production in systems in vitro. We further elucidate the likely metabolic pathway and CYP isoforms responsible for DHD1 and DHD3 production and characterize their physicochemical, ADME, and pharmacological properties and their preliminary toxicological profiles.
