The synthesis and structure of a trimer 5 of the furoxan system are reported. The probable origin of this derivative is the dimerization of the intermediate 4-phenyl-3-furoxancarbonitrile oxide (4) obtained by decomposition of the corresponding nitrolic acid 3. The title compound shows a high level of activity as vasodilator and inhibitor of platelet aggregation.
4-Phenyl-3-furoxancarbonitrile (2) affords nitric oxide under the action of thiol cofactors. Two principal products were isolated in the reac- tion with thiophenol: the phenylcyanoglyoxime (6) and 5-amino-3-phenyl- 4-(phenylthio)isoxazole (7). Mechanisms which could account for the fo- rmation of these two products are discussed. Compound 2 is an efficient activator of the rat lung soluble guanylate cyclase, displays high va- sodilatory activity on strips of rat thoracic aorta precontracted with noradrenaline, and is a potent inhibitor of platelet aggregation
Rapid ligand-induced trafficking of glucocorticoid nuclear hormone receptor (GR) from the cytoplasm to the nucleus is an extensively studied model for intracellular retrograde cargo transport employed in constructive morphogenesis and many other cellular functions. Unfortunately, potent and selective small-molecule disruptors of this process are lacking, which has restricted pharmacological investigations. We describe here the development and validation of a 384-well high-content screening (HCS) assay to identify inhibitors of the rapid ligand-induced retrograde translocation of cytoplasmic glucocorticoid nuclear hormone receptor green fluorescent fusion protein (GR-GFP) into the nuclei of 3617.4 mouse mammary adenocarcinoma cells. We selected 3617.4 cells, because they express GR-GFP under the control of a tetracycline (Tet)-repressible promoter and are exceptionally amenable to image acquisition and analysis procedures. Initially, we investigated the time-dependent expression of GR-GFP in 3617.4 cells under Tet-on and Tet-off control to determine the optimal conditions to measure dexamethasone (Dex)-induced GR-GFP nuclear translocation on the ArrayScan-VTI automated imaging platform. We then miniaturized the assay into a 384-well format and validated the performance of the GR-GFP nuclear translocation HCS assay in our 3-day assay signal window and dimethylsulfoxide validation tests. The molecular chaperone heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) plays an essential role in the regulation of GR steroid binding affinity and ligand-induced retrograde trafficking to the nucleus. We verified that the GR-GFP HCS assay captured the concentration-dependent inhibition of GR-GFP nuclear translocation by 17-AAG, a benzoquinone ansamycin that selectively blocks the binding and hydrolysis of ATP by Hsp90. We screened the 1280 compound library of pharmacologically active compounds set in the Dex-induced GR-GFP nuclear translocation assay and used the multi-parameter HCS data to eliminate cytotoxic compounds and fluorescent outliers. We identified five qualified hits that inhibited the rapid retrograde trafficking of GR-GFP in a concentration-dependent manner: Bay 11-7085, 4-phenyl-3-furoxancarbonitrile, parthenolide, apomorphine, and 6-nitroso-1,2-benzopyrone. The data presented here demonstrate that the GR-GFP HCS assay provides an effective phenotypic screen and support the proposition that screening a larger library of diversity compounds will yield novel small-molecule probes that will enable the further exploration of intracellular retrograde transport of cargo along microtubules, a process which is essential to the morphogenesis and function of all cells.
It is known that NO is involved in the regulation of intraocular pressure (IOP) and retinal function recovery after ischemia. Thus, S-nitrosoglutathione (RVC-588) and 4-phenyl-3-furoxancarbonitrile (RVC-589) as NO donor and precursor, respectively, were studied in terms of their ability to increase b-wave recovery of electroretinogram (ERG) and ocular blood flow. It was found that RVC-588 increased b-wave amplitude markedly from 28% (control) to 67% (treated) and the blood flow significantly in the retina, choroid, and ciliary body. In the case of RVC-589, the b-wave recovery was significantly increased from 30% (control) to 51% (treated) but was less marked than that of RVC-588. The blood flow in the eye tissues was not significantly increased by RVC-588, but there was a clear tendency to enhance in the retina, choroid and iris. These results indicate that NO can be released effectively from S-nitrosothiols but less significantly from furoxans.
The antiviral effect of nitric oxide (NO)-releasing compounds was investigated. Using bacterially expressed and purified proteinases 2A and 3C of coxsackievirus B3, in vitro assays demonstrated the inhibition of the 2A proteinase activity in the presence of S-nitroso- N-acetyl-penicillamine (SNAP), 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), 4-phenyl-3-furoxancarbonitrile (PFC), glyceryl trinitrate (GTN), and isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN). Sodium nitroprusside (SNP), which releases NO after metabolization, had no effect. The 3C proteinase was inactivated by SNAP, GTN, and ISDN. The vasodilators GTN and ISDN, widely used in the treatment of angina pectoris, exhibited antiviral activity in CVB3-infected GMK cells. CVB3-infected NMRI outbred mice showed significantly reduced signs of myocarditis after treatment with GTN or ISDN. Inhibitors of the cellular inducible NO synthase (iNOS) such as N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA), and S-methyl-isothiourea (SMT), had no deleterious effect on CVB3-infected NMRI mice, indicating that endogenous NO synthesis is unlikely to be a major defense mechanism after enterovirus infection of outbred mice.
