New trifluoromethyl analogs of riboflavin have been synthesized for biological tests. The synthesis of the intermediate products — 5-chloro-2-methyl-4-nitrobenzotrifluoride and 3-chloro-6-methyl-2-nitrobenzotrifluoride — has been developed.
A synthesis process of 5-fluoro-2-nitrobenzotrifluoride was achieved in a continuous-flow millireactor system through the nitration of 3-fluorobenzotrifluoride using the mixed acid as a nitrating agent. The process safety was evaluated based on the temperature rise with the use of Reaction Calorimeter and Differential Scanning Calorimetry. The mass transfer limitation for this nitration process in the millireactor was evaluated. Effects of the composition of the mixed acid, the molar ratio of nitric acid to the substrate, the residence time, and the temperature on the reaction performance in the millireactor were studied in order to obtain optimal operational conditions. A heat transfer assessment was made to discuss the effects of the residence time and the inner diameter on the temperature distribution and the substrate conversion. Compared with the traditional batch reactor, the flow reactor could achieve better control over impurity and higher process efficiency because of its enhanced mass and heat transfer rates under the optimized conditions. This continuous-flow synthesis strategy would be beneficial for the commercial manufacturing of fine chemicals and pharmaceutical intermediates with the involvement of nitration.
Flutamide, an antiandrogen drug, is widely used for the treatment of prostate cancer. The major metabolic pathways of flutamide are hydroxylation and hydrolysis. The hydrolyzed metabolite, 5-amino-2-nitrobenzotrifluoride (FLU-1), is further metabolized to N -hydroxy FLU-1, an assumed hepatotoxicant. Our previous study demonstrated that arylacetamide deacetylase (AADAC), one of the major serine esterases expressed in the human liver and gastrointestinal tract, catalyzes the flutamide hydrolysis. However, the enzyme kinetics in human tissue microsomes were not consistent with the kinetics by recombinant human AADAC. Thus, it seemed that AADAC is not the sole enzyme responsible for flutamide hydrolysis in human. In the present study, we found that recombinant carboxylesterase (CES) 2 could hydrolyze flutamide at low concentrations of flutamide. In the inhibition assay, the flutamide hydrolase activities at a flutamide concentration of 5 μM in human liver and jejunum microsomes were strongly inhibited by a selective CES2 inhibitor, 10 μM loperamide, with the residual activities of 22.9 ± 3.5 and 18.6 ± 0.7%, respectively. These results suggest that CES2 is also involved in the flutamide hydrolysis in human tissues. Using six individual human livers, the contributions of AADAC and CES2 to flutamide hydrolysis were estimated by using the relative activity factor. The relative contribution of CES2 was approximately 75 to 99% at the concentration of 5 μM flutamide. In contrast, the relative contribution of AADAC increased in parallel with the concentration of flutamide. Thus, CES2, rather than AADAC, largely contributed to the flutamide hydrolysis in clinical therapeutics.
Flutamide is used for prostate cancer therapy but occasionally induces severe liver injury. Flutamide is hydrolyzed in the body into 5-amino-2-nitrobenzotrifluoride (FLU-1) and then further oxidized. In our previous study, N-hydroxy FLU-1 (FLU-1 N-OH) was detected in the urine of patients and exhibited cytotoxicity in rat primary hepatocytes. In the present study, we have assessed the roles of FLU-1 N-oxidation and hepatic glutathione (GSH) depletion in liver injury. FLU-1 (200 mg/kg p.o.) was administered to C57BL/6 mice for 5 days together with 1,4-bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]benzene (TCPOBOP) (3 mg/kg i.p.) for the first 3 days. Mice were fasted for the last 2 days to deplete hepatic GSH. Administration of FLU-1 alone did not affect serum alanine aminotransferase activities (ALT), whereas coadministration of FLU-1 and TCPOBOP significantly increased ALT in fasted mice but not in nonfasted mice. Microsomal FLU-1 N-hydroxylation was enhanced approximately 5 times by TCPOBOP treatment. Flutamide metabolite-protein adducts were detected in liver microsomes incubated with FLU-1 N-OH, but not with FLU-1 and flutamide, by immunoblotting using antiflutamide antiserum. In the presence of mouse liver cytosol, FLU-1 N-OH was reduced back into FLU-1. This enzymatic reduction required NAD(P)H as a cofactor. The reduction was enhanced by the coexistence of NAD(P)H and GSH, whereas it was markedly inhibited by allopurinol (20 microM). By using purified bovine xanthine oxidase, the reduction was observed in the presence of NAD(P)H. These results suggest that FLU-1 N-OH is involved in flutamide-induced hepatotoxicity and that cytosolic reduction of FLU-1 N-OH plays a major role in protection against flutamide-induced hepatotoxicity.
Flutamide is used for prostate cancer therapy but occasionally induces severe liver injury. Flutamide is hydrolyzed in the body into 5-amino-2-nitrobenzotrifluoride (FLU-1) and then further oxidized. In our previous study, N-hydroxy FLU-1 (FLU-1 N-OH) was detected in the urine of patients and exhibited cytotoxicity in rat primary hepatocytes. In the present study, we have assessed the roles of FLU-1 N-oxidation and hepatic glutathione (GSH) depletion in liver injury. FLU-1 (200 mg/kg p.o.) was administered to C57BL/6 mice for 5 days together with 1,4-bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]benzene (TCPOBOP) (3 mg/kg i.p.) for the first 3 days. Mice were fasted for the last 2 days to deplete hepatic GSH. Administration of FLU-1 alone did not affect serum alanine aminotransferase activities (ALT), whereas coadministration of FLU-1 and TCPOBOP significantly increased ALT in fasted mice but not in nonfasted mice.
