2-Mercaptopyridine N-oxide sodium salt (NaSpyO) was used as a bioactive ligand for the preparation of two new cycloplatinated(II) complexes. The reaction of the NaSpyO ligand with the cyclometalated platinum complexes [PtCl(C^N)(dmso)], 1, C^N = deprotonated form of 2-phenylpyridine (ppy, 1a) or 7,8-benzoquinoline (bzq, 1b), afforded the complexes [Pt(C^N)(SpyO)], 2, C^N = ppy (2a) or bzq (2b). These complexes were characterized in solution via NMR spectroscopy. Single-crystal X-ray determination (in the case of 2a) and theoretical calculations confirmed that the SpyO ligand acted as a chelate (sulfur atom is cis to the carbon atom of the C^N ligand). The optical properties of both complexes were studied by UV-visible spectroscopy. The lower energy bands in 2 had a mixed transition character (1MLCT/1LC/1L′LCT, L = C^N and L′ = SpyO), and this assignment was supported by the time-dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) calculations. The cytotoxic activities of 2 were tested on five different human cancer cell lines: A549 (non-small cell lung cancer), MCF-7 (breast cancer), SKOV3 (ovarian cancer), MDA-MB-231 (breast cancer), and HT-29 (colon colorectal cancer). The effects of these compounds on the proliferation of the non-tumoral breast cell line (MCF-12A) showed good selectivity among the tumorigenic and non-tumorigenic cell lines. These complexes revealed good to moderate anti-proliferative activity. Electrophoresis mobility shift assays and molecular docking studies were also carried out on 2 to determine the specific binding mode and the orientation of binding to DNA.
Cell, media, and reagents. HeLa cells (strain Ohio; European Collection of Cell Cultures, Salisbury, United Kingdom) were cultured in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal calf serum, 2 mM L-glutamine, 100 U/ml penicillin, and 100 g/ml streptomycin (all obtained from Gibco, Invitrogen, Austria). PDTC (pyrrolidine-dithiocarbamate ammonium salt), pyrithione (2-mercaptopyridine N-oxide sodium salt), Zn-EDTA, Ca-EDTA, Mg-EDTA, and N,N,NЈ,NЈ-tetrakis (2-pyridylmethyl) ethylenediamine (TPEN) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich, Austria. HK (␤-thujaplicin) from Calbiochem was dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide and stored at Ϫ20°C.
Abstract Ilmenite is major source of titanium dioxide production and contains high concentration of iron. It is crucial to selectively remove iron impurities during the titanium production process. The present study investigated the acid and flux fusion digestion techniques for complete dissolution of ilmenite and subsequent separation of iron and titanium by precipitation process. Analytical results indicated that the Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4·H2O, Na2B4O7 and LiBO2 flux fusion procedures were the most effective for complete dissolution of ilmenite mineral. The separation of Fe(II) and Ti(IV) from the phosphate fused solution by selective precipitation was studied using phenanthroline (phen), sodium tetraphenylborate (NaTPB) and 2-mercaptopyridine N-oxide sodium salt (NaPT) as precipitants. The combination of phen and NaTPB showed poor selectivity for the precipitation of either Ti(IV) or Fe(II) and both metals collectively precipitated under the investigated experimental conditions. Negligible selectivity was observed when only sodium tetraphenylborate was used. The selective separation of Fe(II) and Ti(IV) from fused solution using NaPT as precipitant was extremely successful with 100(1)% Fe(II) recovered in the precipitate (no titanium observed in precipitate) while 99.6(1)% Ti(IV) remained in the filtrate (no iron observed in the filtrate).
A novel method was developed of the homologation of a cholanic acid derivative using the Barton ester, as a practical approach to 25-hydroxy vitamin D and congeners. The method involves transformation of a cholanic acid derivative into a nor-bromide by using 2-mercaptopyridine N-oxide sodium salt and bromotrichloromethane and then alkylation of the bromide with dimethylmalonate followed by demethoxycarbonylation by Krapcho procedure. The major byproducts of the synthesis were isolated, and their structures were identified by spectroscopic and chemical methods. Our method is designed especially for the large-scale manufacturing of vitamin D compounds because it involves an intermediate that can be easily purified and it avoids the use of toxic and explosive diazomethane that is employed in the classical synthesis of vitamins D from natural steroids.
Abstract Platinum group elements (PGEs) are known for their similar chemical properties, which complicates their isolation and separation from mineral ores and recycled products such as autocatalysts. Therefore, this study investigated the separation of PGEs (except Os) in a synthetic autocatalyst mixture using 2-mercaptopyridine N-oxide sodium salt (NaPT) as an extractant. Solvent extraction was performed with an aqueous mixture containing Pt, Pd, Rh, Ir and Ru and NaPT in the presence of toluene, which produced a pink organic layer. An ICP analysis indicated a complete absence of Pd in the orange aqueous layer. The extractions were repeated with different [HCl] and [PT−] and the analytical results confirmed the complete extraction of Pd from the mixture. The formation of a Pd(PT)2 complex in the pink product was confirmed with IR, 1H and 13C NMR. Pd(OAc)2 reacted with NaPT in DMF to form pink crystals, which were suitable for crystallography. The pink crystals were also characterized with IR, 1H and 13C and found to be identical to the product isolated after solvent extraction. The crystal structure indicated the isolation of the square planar Pd(PT)2·DMF complex, which crystalized in the monoclinic P21/n space group with four molecules per unit cell. The two PT− ligands in the complex bonded with the sulfur atoms (and also the oxygen atoms) cis with respect to each other, with the S–Pd–S and O–Pd–O bond angles at 96.27(5) and 91.08(14)° respectively. The two Pd–S bonds distances were 2.2443(13) and 2.2416(15) A. The selective and complete isolation of Pd from a mixture of PGE using NaPT can be extremely useful in the recovery of Pd from autoctalaysts and other mixed PGE waste materials.
