In 1042 irradiated patients drug trials were conducted in attempts to assess the relative value of central sedatives (mainly phenothiazines) as compared with pyridoxine and a relatively inert group of drugs. The phenothiazines used were of the older type (chlorpromazine, prochlorperazine, thiopropazate, fluopromazine, pecazine) as well as of the newer type (trifluoperazine, haloperidol). The relatively inert drugs included cyclazine, amphetamine, diphenylhydramine, and lactose. For nausea, the predominant symptom, pyridoxine, the older phenothiazines, and the newer tranquilizer groups are all significantly superior to the inert drugs. The newer tranquilizers are superior to all others, but there is no statistical difference between pyridoxine and the older phenothiazines in the relief of nausea. For vomiting and listlessness, a similar superiority of the newer tranquilizers is shown. In the case of anorexia, however, pyridoxine and the older phenothiazines are superior to the inert group but the newer tranquilizers are relatively less effective. For all drugs used in radiation sickness, anorexia is the most difficult symptom to relieve possibly because its control lies in the appetite center, separate from the vomiting center. Possibly some other factor also enters into its control, such as the loss of taste. Haloperidol and trifluoperazine assessed separately showed no statisticalmore » difference in their relative efficacy in any symptom including anorexia. Radiation of the abdomen and pelvis causes more severe radiation sickness, and inert drugs give, in general, less relief of symptoms arising from radiation of this area than of other parts. All the drugs were less efficacious when radiation is given to the abdomen and pelvis, although not at a significantly statistical level. In comparison of the efficacy of each group for irradiation both above and below the diaphragm, the newer tranquilizers appear significantly superior to all others. For nausea arising in 265 cases of breast irradiation, the new tranquilizers are significantly superior to all others. Anorexia after irradiation may originate in the appetite center or have a different cause such as delayed gastric emptying. Separate origins for vomiting and for anorexia may account for the superior effect noted with the newer tranquilizers on the symptoms of nausea and vomiting and the greatly inferior effect on anorexia. The tranquilizers may act by sedating the vomiting center. Evidence was found for a specific deficiency of pyridoxine in some cases of radiation sickness. Whether this is a direct effect on enzymes, an effect on the bowel, or a result of metabolic changes associated with vomiting is uncertain. Nevertheless pyridoxine may be of value even if other anti-emetic drugs fail to control the symptoms of radiation sickness.« less
The efficacy of chlorpromazine was compared with that of pecazine. A double-blind, controlled trial was carried out on 92 female patients, the whole schizophrenic population of under sixty years of age on three chronic psychiatric wards. The patients were divided into three groups and assessed every four weeks by a modification of the Albany Behavioural Rating Scale (Shatin and Freed, 1955). After eight weeks on the drugs, the group which had chlorpromazine was significantly better than the control group. The group which had pecazine was better than the control group, but not significantly so. A better method is to allow each patient to act as her own control. Analysed from this point of view, group A showed only slight improvement whilst receiving pecazine and chlorpromazine in turn. Significance was not approached. Group B showed improvement whilst on chlorpromazine, significance being approached after eight weeks on the drug. Improvement continued and significance was reached during the first four weeks on pecazine, immediately after the chlorpromazine, the group deteriorating once more during the final four weeks on pecazine. There was no significant change in the scores for mental tension or thought disorder during the investigation. The results with chlorpromazine are less impressive than those of most other workers. Only 7 out of 61 patients showed an improvement of over 3 points (out of a possible 18) whilst on chlorpromazine. It is suggested that phenothiazine derivatives are used too frequently with chronic schizophrenic patients. A case of agranulocytosis occurring with pecazine is described.
Transmission through the cat superior cervical ganglion was studied by recording the response of the nictitating membrane to both pre- and postganglionic cervical sympathetic nerve stimulation. The intra-arterial injection of central depressant drugs to the ganglion through the lingual artery depressed transmission through the ganglion. The central depressant drugs tested were (in decreasing order of activity): amylobarbitone, pentobarbitone, carbromal, benactyzine, mephobarbitone, hydroxyzine, phenobarbitone, azacyclonol, methylpentynol carbamate, paraldehyde, phenytoin, mephenesin, chlorbutol, troxidone, methylpentynol and barbitone. All were weaker ganglion-blocking agents than tetraethylammonium. The intra-arterial injection of the central stimulant drugs leptazol, bemegride, amiphenazole and 5-(1,3-dimethylbut-2-enyl)-5-ethylbarbituric acid (McN 481) also depressed ganglionic transmission. Leptazol or bemegride did not antagonize the ganglion-blocking action of amylobarbitone or troxidone. The intra-arterial injection of pecazine and perphenazine, and the intravenous injection of barbitone, benactyzine, azacyclonol, hydroxyzine, mephenesin, methylpentynol and paraldehyde impaired the response of the nictitating membrane to both post- and preganglionic stimulation. The implications of these observations are discussed.
