1. Combination of anticholinergics, which is selected from the group consisting of racemic glycopyrrolate, one of its enantiomers, especially R, R-glycopyrrolate, one of its diasteremerov and their physiologically acceptable salts and mixtures thereof, and at least one leukotriene inhibitor for the treatment of respiratory diseases, selected from the group consisting of allergic rhinitis, bronchial asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and the common cold. ! 2. A combination according to claim 1, wherein the anticholinergic is R, R-glycopyrrolate or its physiologically acceptable salt. ! 3. A combination according to claim 1, wherein the leukotriene inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of, AS-35, montelukast, zafirlukast, pranlukast, L-648,051, MK-571, verlukast (MK-0679), pobilukast (8K & F 104353-Z2), ICI 204,219, tomelukast (LY 171,883) or their physiologically acceptable salts. ! 4. A combination according to claim 1, wherein the daily dose of a leukotriene inhibitor is from 1 to 100 mg, preferably from 5 to 20 mg. ! 5. A combination according to claim 1, wherein the daily dose of R, R-glycopyrrolate is from 1 to 500 micrograms. ! 6. A combination according to claim 5, wherein the daily dose of R, R-glycopyrrolate is from 5 to 100 micrograms. ! 7. A pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of respiratory diseases such as allergic rhinitis, bronchial asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or common cold containing anticholinergic that is selected from the group consisting of racemic glycopyrrolate, one of its enantiomers, especially R, R-glycopyrrolate and one diasteremerov of his and their physiologically acceptable salts or mixtures thereof, and at least one leukotriene inhibitor. ! 8. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 7, which is
The so called leukotriene antagonists or, more accurately, the leukotriene modifiers are a rather heterogeneous set of drugs that work by several mechanisms. Such mechanisms include: (i) 5-lipoxygenase enzyme inhibition (e.g. zileuton); (ii) 5-lipoxygenase-activating-protein inhibition (e.g. quiflapon, BAYx 1005); (iii) LTD4-receptor antagonism (e.g. zafirlukast, montelukast, MK-571, pranlukast). The first leukotriene modifiers tested (L-649,923 and tomelukast) had adverse gastrointestinal effects. Since then, several leukotriene modifiers have been marketed, including zafirlukast, zileuton and montelukast. Zafirlukast has been associated with 8 cases of Churg-Strauss syndrome, although these were probably not caused by zafirlukast. It is more likely that this syndrome is related to the underlying illness, which was masked by corticosteroids, and revealed after zafirlukast-mediated asthma treatment allowed steroid withdrawal and unmasking of underlying vasculitis. The main adverse effects of zileuton include liver function test abnormalities, while montelukast, the most recently marketed, has so far shown minimal adverse effects. Zafirlukast causes a decrease in warfarin clearance and a clinically significant increase in prothrombin time, probably by cytochrome P450 isoenzyme interactions. Moreover, terfenadine decreases zafirlukast maximum serum concentrations. Calcium antagonists, cyclosporin, cisapride and astemizole are metabolised via the cytochrome P450 system, and interactions with leukotriene modifiers can be expected.
Since the role of prostanoid receptors in intestinal peristalsis is largely unknown, the peristaltic motor effects of some prostaglandin (DP, EP, IP), thromboxane (TP) and leukotriene (LT) receptor agonists and antagonists were investigated. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Propulsive peristalsis in fluid-perfused segments from the guinea-pig small intestine was triggered by a rise of the intraluminal pressure and recorded via the intraluminal pressure changes associated with the peristaltic waves. Alterations of distension sensitivity were deduced from alterations of the peristaltic pressure threshold and modifications of peristaltic performance were reflected by modifications of the amplitude, maximal acceleration and residual baseline pressure of the peristaltic waves. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Four categories of peristaltic motor effects became apparent: a decrease in distension sensitivity and peristaltic performance as induced by the EP1/EP3 receptor agonist sulprostone and the TP receptor agonist U-46,619 (1–1000 nM); a decrease in distension sensitivity without a major change in peristaltic performance as induced by PGD2 (3–300 nM) and LTD4 (10–100 nM); a decrease in peristaltic performance without a major change in distension sensitivity as induced by PGE1, PGE2 (1–1000 nM) and the EP1/IP receptor agonist iloprost (1–100 nM); and a decrease in peristaltic performance associated with an increase in distension sensitivity as induced by the EP2 receptor agonist butaprost (1–1000 nM). The DP receptor agonist BW-245C (1–1000 nM) was without effect. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: The peristaltic motor action of sulprostone remained unchanged by the EP1 receptor antagonist SC-51,089 (1 μM) and the DP/EP1/EP2 receptor antagonist AH-6809 (30 μM), whereas that of U-46,619 and LTD4 was prevented by the TP receptor antagonist SQ-29,548 (10 μM) and the cysteinyl-leukotriene1 (cysLT1) receptor antagonist tomelukast (10 μM), respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: These observations and their pharmacological analysis indicate that activation of EP2, EP3, IP, TP and cysLT1 receptors, but not DP receptors, modulate intestinal peristalsis in a receptor-selective manner, whereas activation of EP1 seems to be without influence on propulsive peristalsis. In a wider perspective it appears as if the effect of prostanoid receptor agonists to induce diarrhoea is due to their prosecretory but not peristaltic motor action. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: British Journal of Pharmacology (2002) 137, 1047–1054. doi:10.1038/sj.bjp.0704958
