Abstract Catalytic cyclopropanation of spiro[2.4]hepta-4,6-diene with diazomethane in the presence of copper or palladium compounds results in mono- and dicyclopropanation products, namely, spiro[bicyclo[3.1.0]hex-3-ene-2,1′-cyclopropane] and spiro[cyclopropane-1,5′-tricyclo[4.1.0.02,4]heptane], with different efficiency. The use of Pd compounds as catalysts allows the cyclopropanation to be performed under conditions of simultaneous generation and decomposition of diazomethane.
The synthesis of palladatricyclo[4.1.0.02,4]heptane diastereomers by positional selective transesterification with (1R,2S,5R)-(−)-menthol is used for the resolution of these chiral organometallic compounds. The separation process of the two diastereomers is simplified by an unprecedented aggregation phenomenon. In a molecular recognition process the highly diastereoselective formation of dimers of strongly differing stability allows an efficient separation by normal column chromatography. The stereoselective dimerization was proven by IR and mass spectroscopic studies as well as 1H NMR techniques and X-ray crystal structure analysis.
The oxidative addition of 3,3-dimethylcyclopropene (DMCP) to the nickel complexes (Ph3P)3Ni and (π-C2H4)Ni(PPh3)2 resulting in the formation of bis(triphenylphosphine)-5-nickela-3,3,7,7-tetramethyl-trans-tricyclo[4.1.0.02,4]heptane has been carried out. The NMR (1H and 31P-{1H}) spectra, the reactivity and some of the catalytic properties of this complex in the cyclodimerization of DMCP have been studied.
The reaction of Pd2(dba)3·CHCl3 with 2 equiv of chiral, C2-symmetrical cyclopropenes bearing lactate esters at the 1- and 2-positions provided trans-5-palladatricyclo[4.1.0.02,4]heptanes (PTHs) in high diastereomeric excess. The configuration of all stereocenters in the major diastereomer was determined by X-ray structure analyses of the complexes of the PTH with norbornadiene; the C2 symmetry of the (+)-DIOP complex of the minor diastereomer proves that this was also a trans isomer.
The bis(acetone) complex of tetramethyl rac-3,3,7,7-tetramethyl-trans-5-palladatricyclo[4.1.0.02,4]heptane-1,2,4,6-tetracarboxylate rac-1a was crystallized and investigated by X-ray structure analysis. Unlike in complexes with bidendate ligands in rac-1a · 2(acetone), only a small deviation from the square planar coordination of palladium was observed. Efforts to crystallize the analogous pyridine, acetonitrile and benzonitrile complexes failed; but the labile complexes rac-1a · 2([D5]pyridine) and rac-1a · 2([D3] acetonitrile) as well as rac-1a · 2([D6]acetone) could be characterized by 1H and 13C NMR spectra and a fast ligand exchange was proven by nmr. Then the ability of different 1,2-disubstituted cyclopropenes to form trans-5-pallada-tricyclo[4.1.0.02,4] heptanes 1 was investigated. Only the diesters 5c–e lead to PTHs, with a diester possessing sterically demanding substituents in 3-position of the cyclopropene and with other substituents in 1- respectively 2-position of the cyclopropene either the cyclopropene-formation or the PTH-formation failed.
The title compound (II) underwent reductive elimination on treatment with maleic anhydride, tetracyanoethylene or triphenylphosphite to give 3,3,6,6,-tetramethyl-trans-tricyclo[3.1.0.02,4]hexane (III). With triphenylphosphite bi(2,2-dimethylcyclopropyl) (V) and 1-(2,2-dimethylcyclopropyl)-3-methyl-1,3-butadiene (VI) were also formed. Acidolysis of II with either HCl, malonic acid or methanol gave V. An intermediate complex α,α′-bipyridyl(phenoxy)-3-nickel-1,1′-bi-(2,2′-dimethylcyclopropyl) (VIII) was isolated by reaction of II with phenol. Methylene dibromide reacts with II to give III and 3,3,7,7-tetramethyl-trans-tricyclo[4.1.0.02,4]heptane (IV). With triethylaluminum and II complete exchange of the alkyl groups occurred and V was released on hydrolysis. Trifluoroborane diethyl ether and II gave 3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohexa-1,4-diene in a rearrangement-displacement reaction. The cyclodimerisation of 3,3-dimethylcyclopropene (I) to III catalysed by II and the fact that II can be recovered from the reaction mixture provides strong evidence for the intermediacy of metallacyclopentanes in these transition-metal-catalysed [2π + 2π] cyclo-additions.
1α,2α,4α,6α,-3,7-Diazatricyclo[4.1.0.02,4]heptane (cis-diaziridinocyclopentane) (1) has been prepared from the analogous cis-diepoxycyclopentane. Ring opening of the diepoxide with sodium azide produced a pair of regioisomeric azido alcohols. Tosylation and treatment with lithium aluminum hydride produced 1. The dibenzoyl derivative possessed the di-exo stereochemistry for the tertiary aziridine nitrogens. The 1H spectrum of 1 was temperature dependent. Both the CH and NH resonances underwent decoalescence as the temperature was lowered. Because the rate was independent of concentration, the mechanism is probably inversion of the secondary nitrogen, the first such example to occur by the interchange of two diastereotopic, secondary (NH) amine nitrogens within the same molecule. The free energy of activation at coalescence (0 °C) was measured to be 12.8 kcal mol−1. The unsymmetrical slow exchange of 1 is clearly consistent with the exo,endo stereochemistry for the secondary aziridine nitrogens, possibly stabilized by intramolecular attraction.
The endo orientation of both Cl atoms in the 3,7-dichlorotricyclo[4.1.0.02,4 heptane molecule is determined, and precise geometric parameters of the 3,3,7,7-tetrachloro- and 3,7-dichlorotricyclo[4.1.0.02,4]heptane molecules are obtained. These are necessary to establish the mechanism of hydrodehalogenation.
