The reaction of methylmalonic acid with mono- and disubstituted olefins in the presence of manganese(III) acetate yielded 2-carboxy-2-methyl-4-butanolides in moderate to good yields. The reactions of bromomalonic acid and chloromalonic acid with a variety of olefins gave 2-halo-4-butanolides and/or 2-buten-4-olides. The reaction of ethyl hydrogen malonate with olefins in the presence of manganese(III) acetate yielded 2-ethoxycarbonyl-2-buten-4-olides, 2-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethenyl-4-butanolide, 2,7-dioxaspiro[4.4]nonane-1,6-diones, 2-ethoxycarbonyl-4-butanolide, and ethyl 3-butenoate. These reactions can be accounted for in terms of a free-radical mechanism involving substituted dicarboxymethyl radicals.
A method for the decarboxylation of certain substituted chloromalonic acids is described. A number of new aryloxypropylmalonic and aryloxypropylchloromalonic acids have been prepared and are reported. In antifungal screening tests the two valeric acids exhibited slight activity which was insufficient to warrant further investigation.
1. ::: ::: On the basis of results obtained in an x-ray structure study of 4-phenylamino-2-diethoxyphosphony1-3-chloroquinoline, it was established that in the reaction of bis-arylimidoyl chlorides of dichloromalonic acid with triethylphosphite, 2-diethoxyphosphonyl derivatives of quinoline are formed.
The fungicide isoprothiolane (diisopropyl 1,3-dithiolane-2-ylidenemalonate) decomposes to the diisopropyl esters of malonic acid (DM), chloromalonic acid (DCM) and dichloromalonic acid (DDCM) upon aqueous chlorination. In this study, the cytotoxicity of these compounds was examined using rat hepatocytes cultured on Matrigel. DCM and DDCM caused hepatocellular death at concentrations >0.5 mM, while DM had no effect on the cell viability even at the maximum concentration examined (4 mM). Significant lipid peroxidation, measured as 2-thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, was observed in both DCM- and DDCM-treated hepatocyte cultures, and was significantly enhanced by pretreatment with 0.1 mM bis( p-nitrophenyl)phosphate (BNPP), a carboxylesterase inhibitor. When both BNPP and SKF-525A, a cytochrome P450 inhibitor, were present in the medium, DCM-induced cytotoxicity and lipid peroxidation were significantly suppressed compared to cultures with BNPP-treatment alone. By contrast, the DDCM-induced cytotoxicity was not affected by the combined pretreatment of SKF-525A and BNPP. These results indicate that DCM is metabolically activated by cytochrome P450 in an ester form, while DDCM is activated by a mechanism other than one involving cytochrome P450. To further elucidate the cytochrome P450 isozyme involved in the metabolic activation of DCM, microsomal lipid peroxidation was studied in vitro using microsomes from rats treated with β-naphthoflavone, musk xylene, phenobarbital, pyrazole, or dexamethasone. Among these preparations, the microsomes from dexamethasone-treated rats showed the most extensive lipid peroxidation in the presence of DCM, and the lipid peroxidation was enhanced by BNPP as observed in hepatocyte cultures. These findings suggest the possible involvement of cytochrome P450 3A in the metabolic activation of DCM.
Abstract: Condensation of hydralazine 1 with ethyl oxalate afforded triazinodione 3 or s-triazolo derivative 4, while with alpha-bromo ketones, 1,2-cyclohexanedione and pyridine keto acid it gave the as-triazino derivatives a-a respectively. Reaction of 1 with bromo esters yield the corresponding 3-bromo-alkyl s-triazolophthalazines 9. Condensation of 9a with hydrazine hydrate followed by acetylacetone afforded the pyrazole derivative ii. Cyclization of 1 with acid chlorides or ketones gave the appropriate 3-substitutes s-triazolophthalazines. With chloromalonic acid ester, 1 yielded the triazino-triazolo derivative 18, while with pyridine acetal it gave the his s-triazolophthalazine 19.
A process for the preparation of a viscosity regulator, in which firstly starch is hydrophobically modified by alkylation with at least one linear or branched C 4 -C 20 -alkyl halide and / or hydroxyalkylation with a linear or branched epoxyalkane having an alkane chain length of 4 to 20 carbon atoms, and then by reaction with halocarboxylic acid selected from the group consisting of monochloroacetic acid, monochloropropionic acid, chloromalonic acid and mixtures thereof is carboxyalkylated.
During chlorination of cyanoethanoic acid at pH=10 a number of compounds is formed. The compounds were confirmed with synthetic standards with GC and mass-spectrometry (MSD). The endproducts of the reaction at pH=10 were dichloroacetic acid, dichloromalonic acid and a small amount of trichloroacetic acid. Intermediates were dichloroacetonitrile (DCAN) and N-chloroacetamides. These N-chloroacetamides were previously errorneously identified as hydroxamoyl chlorides. Mutagenicity tests showed that only DCAN is mutagenic. The total of the mutagenicity of the chlorination mixture can be declared by this compound. In samples drinking water derived from plants where chlorine is used DCAN is detected (0.04-1.05 mug/L). At this concentration level the health risks are very small. The strong bacterial mutagen 'MX' is detected in chlorinated river water (Rhine and Meuse). In these samples the accounted contribution of MX on the measured mutagenic activity (Salmonella typhimurium TA 100) is appr. 20%. In samples drinking water no MX is detected. By chlorination with a higher dose than used for postdesinfection the compound can be formed. It seems to be that the most important mutagens will be organic acids isolated at low pH. The application of chlorine during the production of drinking water has to be limited for emergencies to maintain the bacteriologic quality.
