EPORT is made of IOO patients with variR ous anorectal conditions on whom surgery was performed. It was the ohjective in this study to reduce postoperative pain and postoperative morbidity. With this objective in mind we prepared each patient preoperatively with phthalylsulfacetamide (thalamyd@). * Therapy was continued postoperatively to prevent infection of the incision by bacteriaIaden feces. ThaIamyd is a non-absorbabIe sulfonamide with a very low order of toxicity.’ It is especiaIIy effective in treating enteric infections and has been shown to sterilize the boweI.2 Lack of contamination of the surgica1 incision, with subsequent infection, results in marked reduction in postoperative pain and morbidity. Other investigators have attempted to achieve this objective by use of various anesthetic agents dissolved in oily media injected around the anal margin. This method frequently resuIts in painfree intervaIs varying from one to three weeks. However, sterile abscesses occur which require incision and drainage and there is always the possibiIity of reinfection. In this series the most frequent indication for operation was interna or externa1 hemorrhoids. In a number of cases the presence of additiona pathologic conditions required fistuIectomy, fissurectomy, polypectomy and papiIlectomy, as we11 as hemorrhoidectomy. (Table I.) Patients in this series were treated with thaIamyd, diet and sitz baths. ThaIamyd was given in I gm. doses four times daiIy for two days preoperativeIy and for two or three weeks postoperativeIy. Dosage was then reduced to 0.3 gm. four times daily unti1 comptete heahng had occurred. In the presence of an acute infection of the anorecta1 region chIoromycetin was prescribed in addition to thaIamyd. Surgery was not performed on any patient unti1 infection was controIIed.
Sulfacetamide reacted with phthalic anhydride in the solid state and was gradually converted into phthalylsulfacetamide with mechanical grinding. Formation of phthalylsulfacetamide was confirmed by high pressure liquid chromatography and Fourier transform infrated spectroscopy. The X-ray diffraction pattern of ground powder of sulfacetamide and phthalic anhydride mixture (1 : 1 by molar ratio) gradually became a halo with the formation of phthalylsulfacetamide, indicating that amorphous phthalylsulfacetamide was obtained by the solid-state reaction with mechanical grinding. The solid-state reaction between sulfacetamide and phthalic anhydride also occurred when a mixture of the two was heated. Crystalline phthalylsulfacetamide was formed by the solid-state reaction with heating.
The modern concepts of intestinal antisepsis have developed during the past 12 years. Initially, certain sulfonamides, which were poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, were found to act locally to alter the bacterial flora. These compounds had relatively narrow antimicrobial spectrums, had little effect against the gram-positive organisms, and acted primarily as bacteriostatic agents against the gram-negative bacteria found in the gastrointestinal tract of man. While many of the sulfonamides have some activity, it was not until succinylsulfathiazole (Sulfasuxidine) was used by Knotts, Lee, Inui and myself 1 that the gram-negative flora of the bowel could be altered significantly and consistently. Many sulfonamides were investigated, but ultimately only three could be used as practical intestinal antiseptics. They were, in the order discovered, succinylsulfathiazole, 2 phthalylsulfathiazole (Sulfathalidine), 3 and phthalylsulfacetamide (Thalamyd). 4 Of these three, succinylsulfathiazole was the most promising and satisfactory, because it not only altered the gram-negative flora of
The crystal structure of phthalylsulfacetamide, one of the long-acting 'sulfa' drugs, has been determined by the X-ray diffraction methods. The crystal is monoclinic with cell dimensions of a = 7.980(3), b = 12.784(2), c = 18.064(7) and = , space group /c and Z = 4. The structure was solved by the direct methods and refined to R = 0.048. The sulfonylacetamide moiety is folded with respect to the central phenyl ring and the benzamide and benzoyl planes are nearly perpendicular to each other. This conformation is consistent with those of the relevant molecules containing the corresponding moieties. All of the molecules in the crystal lattice are connected by a three-dimensional hydrogen bonding network.
This study estimates the folate endogenous to a food material (wheat bran) and examines the role of intestinal bacteria in the rat bioassay for folate. After a 4-wk folate depletion period, rats were fed for an additional 4 wk basal diets with or without 0.5% phthalylsulfacetamide and with 100, 200 or 300 g of wheat bran; or 50, 100 or 150 g of xylan; or 0, 0.25, 0.50 or 0.75 mg of folic acid added per kg of basal diet. Xylan increased both liver and fecal folate, and this effect was nearly eliminated by phthalylsulfacetamide. Wheat bran contributed 1.6 micrograms of available folate per g of wheat bran without phthalylsulfacetamide in an apparently valid slope-ratio analysis. With the addition of phthalylsulfacetamide, liver folate increased in rats fed wheat bran diets and decreased in rats fed folic acid diets. The slope-ratio analysis for wheat bran folate with phthalylsulfacetamide became invalid due to a lack of intersection. Phthalylsulfacetamide had no effect on fecal folate excretion from rats fed the wheat bran diets. Further studies are needed on a variety of foods with and without phthalylsulfacetamide to evaluate the effect and importance of intestinal folate synthesis in the rat.
