Abstract The ability to rescue an infectious, recombinant, negative-stranded, RNA virus from a complementary DNA (cDNA) clone, has led to new opportunities for measuring viral replication from a viral expressed reporter gene. In this study, the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene was inserted into the human parainfluenza virus type 3 (HPIV-3) antigenome and a recombinant, infectious virus was rescued. Maximum EGFP expression levels, measured by fluorescence, were seen at day 3. Comparison of a 3-day, viral expressed EGFP fluorescence assay to a 7-day, neutral red assay, based on complete cell destruction in virus infected MA-104 cells, yielded Z ′-factor values of 0.83 and 0.70, respectively. A 3-day, endpoint EGFP-based antiviral assay and a 7-day, endpoint neutral red based antiviral assay were run in parallel to establish antiviral sensitivity profiles of 23 compounds based on selective index (SI) values. Using an SI threshold of 10, the EGFP-based antiviral assay had a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 54%. Thus, the use of an EGFP-based antiviral assay for testing potential antiviral compounds against HPIV-3 in a high-throughput format may be justified.
The ability to rescue an infectious, recombinant, negative-stranded, RNA virus from a cDNA clone, has led to new opportunities for measuring viral replication from a viral expressed reporter gene. In this study, the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene was inserted into the human parainfluenza virus type 3 (HPIV-3) antigenome and a recombinant, infectious virus was rescued. Maximum EGFP expression levels, measured by fluorescence, were seen at day 3. Comparison of a three-day, viral expressed EGFP fluorescence assay to a seven-day, neutral red assay, based on complete cell destruction in virus infected MA-104 cells, yielded Z′-factor values of 0.83 and 0.70, respectively. A three-day, endpoint EGFP-based antiviral assay and a seven-day, endpoint neutral red based antiviral assay were run in parallel to establish antiviral sensitivity profiles of 23 compounds based on selective index (SI) values. Using an SI threshold of 10, the EGFP-based antiviral assay had a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 54%. Thus, the use of an EGFP-based antiviral assay for testing potential antiviral compounds against HPIV-3 in a high-throughput format may be justified.
2 To whom correspondence should be addressed. (ENU) and N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), PBS (2 ml) and homogenized (Yistral YG 1024). Subsequently, the organ 4-nitro-o-phenylenediamine (NPD), tris-hydroxymethylaminomethane (Trizma suspensions were diluted with PBS, 0.1-0.3 ml aliquots plated on neutral red base), 1-methyl-3-nitro-1-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG), laurylsarcosine sodium agar plates, the plates incubated and the individual survival rates of the two salt, Triton X-100, dithiothreitol and proteinase type XII were from Sigma strains was determined by manual colony counting. Three animals were treated (St Louis, MO). Neutral red, trypan blue, 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol, per experimental point and three plates were enumerated per organ. trichloroacetic acid and malonaldehyde bis(diethylacetal) and inorganic salts for bacterial assays were purchased from Merck (Darmstadt, Germany).
Summary A study is made of the free bases of Nile blue, methylene blue, spirit blue and neutral red, especially with respect to preparation, solubility, stability and contrast. The base of Nile blue is found to be highly unstable and unsuitable for use in fat analysis. Of the four dyes studied, the base of neutral red is recommended for general use. When excessive contrast is desirable, as in the microscopic study of very minute fat droplets, the use of neutral red base may be supplemented with some other dye base. Adaptation of the use of dye bases for determining the quality of edible fats has yielded promising results and is under further investigation.
10 RESUME 11 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION 12 1.1. STATE OF THE ART 13 1.2. METALS, ECOSYSTEMS AND TOXICITY 13 1.3. METALS IN SOILS AND FAUNA 14 1.4. SOIL POLLUTION ASSESSMENT 15 1.4.1. Earthworms – a pivotal model organism 15 1.5. HIERARCHICAL RESPONSES TO METAL STRESS 16 1.5.1. Biomarkers 18 1.5.2. Coelomocytes 19 1.5.2.1. Classification 19 1.5.2.2. Usefulness in soil health assessment 21 1.6. IN VITRO IN ECOTOXICOLOGY 21 1.7. VIABILITY/CYTOTOXICITY ASSAYS 22 1.7.1. Neutral Red based assay 23 1.7.1.1. Lysosomes and membrane stability 24 1.7.1.2. Neutral red as a “lysosomotrophic” agent 26 1.7.1.3. General mechanism underlying the NRR assay 26 CHAPTER 2 – HYPOTHESIS AND OBJECTIVES 28 2.1. HYPOTHESIS 29 2.2. OBJECTIVES 29 CHAPTER 3 – MATERIALS AND METHODS 30
Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers, with high incidence rate among women. Prevalence of breast cancer in Pakistan is highest in Asia. The present study was done to observe the effect of arsenic on breast cancer cell lines that was locally established Breast cancer tissues were taken from two hospitals and primary breast cancer cell lines were established by explants culture method. Neutral red based anti-proliferative assays were done to check the effect of arsenic on Pakistan Breast Cancer INMOL (PBCI) and Pakistan Breast Cancer Jinnah (PBCJ) cell lines. Comet assay was done to check the genotoxic effect of arsenic. Letal concentration 50 (LC50) for PBCI was 13 µg/ml on 24 h exposure and it shifted to 12 µg/ml when the cells were exposed for 48 h, while LC50 for PBCJ was 9 µg/ml. PBCJ cells proved to be more sensitive to arsenic than PBCI. When the number of cells were increased (1x10 4 cells per well) in 96 well plate LC50 for PBCI was 19 µg/ml. There was comet formation in arsenic treated samples compared to control. Ten different parameters were investigated for arsenic treated and control cells. The results indicated that arsenic had great cytotoxic and genotoxic effect on breast cancer cells and morphology of cells was totally changed with higher concentrations (12 µg/ml or higher) of arsenic.
