To elucidate the nitrogen dioxide radical-scavenging-activity difference of three hydroxycinnamic acid derivatives (HCAs), i.e., caffeic acid (= 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid; 1), ferulic acid (=3-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid; 2), and sinapic acid (= 3-(4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid: 3), a combined density-functional-theory (DFT) method, labeled as B3LYP/6-31G(d)//AM1, was employed to calculate adiabatic ionization potentials (IPs) for parent molecules and anions derived by proton dissociation. It was found that not the IPs of the parent HCAs but those of the anions account well for the experimentally observed higher activity of caffeic acid as compared to those of the other two HCAs, suggesting that the antioxidant anion should be taken into consideration in the selection or rational design of novel antioxidants; this, however, was neglected in previous studies.
A new method for monitoring the relative activity of antioxidants is presented, and its advantages and limits are discussed. The method is based on the previously reported inhibitory effects of free-radical scavengers on the oscillations of the Briggs-Rauscher reaction. The effect consists of an immediate cessation of oscillations, an inhibition time that linearly depends on the concentration of the antioxidant added, and subsequent regeneration of oscillations. Here the effects of ten antioxidants (pyrocatechol (=benzene-1,2-diol), ferulic acid (=3-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid), caffeic acid (=3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid), 2,6-, 3,4-, 2,4-, 3,5-, and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acids, homovanillic acid (=4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzeneacetic acid), and resorcinol (=benzene-1,3-diol)) were studied in detail. Relative antioxidant activities of these substances with respect to resorcinol were determined in different ways on the basis of inhibition times. The limits of the calculated values of relative activity based on the Briggs-Rauscher reaction are the same as those obtained with other analytical procedures and are discussed here. The new method is inexpensive: reagents and apparatus are commonly used in all chemical laboratories. The thermochemical behavior of the Briggs-Rauscher reaction and the dependence of inhibition time on the temperature were also carefully investigated and taken into account. A semiquantitative mechanistic interpretation of the inhibitory effects based on a suitable kinetic model is given.
Ten new phenolic compounds including the six neolignans 1-3 and 6-8 and four caffeoyl derivatives, i.e., myo-inositol 1-caffeate (9), myo-inositol 6-caffeate (10), myo-inositol 5-caffeate (11), and paucine 3'-beta-D-glucopyranoside (12) were isolated from the whole plants of Selaginella moellendorffii (caffeic acid = 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid). Their structures were established by spectroscopic and chemical methods.
A method to determine the relative antioxidant capacity of radical scavengers based on the inhibition of the oscillations of the BriggsRauscher (BR) oscillating reaction was previously reported. A semiquantitative mechanistic interpretation of the inhibitory effects required two steps to obtain simulated inhibition times in very good agreement with the experimental ones. The first step is inhibitory, involving H-atom transfer from antioxidant to the HOO. radical; the second step is a first-order degradation of the antioxidant to unspecified products. Since the degradation may be due to oxidation and/or iodination of the antioxidant, we studied the kinetics of the subsystems IO(H+)+antioxidant and I2(H+)+antioxidant. We used 2,5- and 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acids, caffeic acid (=3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid), ferulic acid (=3-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid), pyrocatechol (=benzene-1,2-diol), and hydroquinone (=benzene-1,4-diol) as antioxidants. Spectra in the wavelength range 500–250 nm were repeated at given time intervals to follow the peaks of the iodine and oxidation products, which were mainly quinones. For the iodination of the above diphenols (=benzenediol derivatives) the substitution and/or addition reactions with I2 or HOI were found to be relatively slow compared to oxidation by IO. Approximate rate constants for oxidation were obtained on the basis of a reasonable kinetic model by using a suitable numerical integration program. Although these complexities can arise also in the completely inhibited BR oscillator, we believe that the inhibitory effects are due to the HOO. scavenging action by diphenols or by quinones since HOO. radicals are also potential reducing agents. We propose two steps that could maintain a small reservoir of diphenol, while both quinone and diphenol deplete HOO. radicals. In short, the complexities do not affect the method for monitoring the relative activity of antioxidants based on the BR oscillating reaction. The effects of temperature on the inverse of the oscillatory time in the BR-uninhibited system, on the inverse of inhibition times, and on the time length of the resumed oscillations for four antioxidants were also investigated. Apparent average activation energies were obtained.
3,4-Dihydroxybenzaldehyde (protocatechuic aldehyde), (E)-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid (caffeic acid), (2S,3R,4S,5R,6R)-6-(hydroxymethyl)oxane-2,3,4,5-tetrol (d-galactose), and (3R,4S,5R,6R)-2-[[(2R,3S,4S,5R)-6-[(2S,3S,4S,5R)-3,4-dihydroxy-2,5-bis(hydroxymethyl)oxolan-2-yl]oxy-3,4,5-trihydroxyoxan-2-yl]methoxy]-6-(hydroxymethyl)oxane-3,4,5-triol (d-raffinose) are substances contained in danshen. In this study, the solubilities of protocatechuic aldehyde, caffeic acid, d-galactose, and d-raffinose pentahydrate in the mixtures of ethanol and water from 273.2 K to 303.2 K were determined. The solubilities of protocatechuic aldehyde and caffeic acid in ethanol–water solutions are significantly higher than those in pure water. The solubilities of d-galactose and d-raffinose pentahydrate decrease as ethanol mass fraction increases. The solubilities of the four compounds increase as equilibrium temperature increases. Prediction values of d-galactose calculated using universal functional activity coeff...
