Crystals of hexadecamethylcyclooctasiloxane are tetragonal, a = 13.9442(5), c = 8.5573(4) A, Z = 2, space group P4/nnc. The structure was solved by direct methods and was refined by full-matrix least-squares procedures to a final R of 0.034 and Rw = 0.042 for 730 reflections with I ≥ 3σ(I). The molecular structure closely resembles that of [(CH3)2PN]8. Its comparatively rigid conformation, in which the silicon atoms form a crown, is dependent on the efficient use of van der Waals interactions between two sets of four methyl groups. Important molecular dimensions (bond lengths corrected for libration) are: Si—O = 1.629(1) and 1.635(1), Si—C = 1.862(2) and 1.848(3) A, O—Si—O = 108.99(6), Si—O—Si = 157.8(1) and 148.8(2)°.
The purpose of this study was to synthesize polydimethylsiloxanes by heterogeneous catalysis, based on the polymerization of the hexadecamethylcyclooctasiloxane (D8) by an environment-friendly solid catalyst (Maghnite-H + ). Maghnite-H + is a natural Algerian clay of the montmorillonite type, prepared by activation with sulfuric acid, the impact of this activation was observable in the XRD spectrum, by the increase in the interlayer spacing (d 001 ) resulting from the intercalation of hydronium ions between layers. The molecular structure of the obtained polymer was determined by different chemical methods of analysis such as IR, 1 H NMR, and 13 C NMR. The thermal behavior of the polysiloxane obtained was confirmed by DSC. In order to achieve the best possible yield and at the same time to get a polymer of high molecular mass, the operating conditions have been set at t = 8 h and T = 70 °C after the reaction was repeated several times. The average molecular mass and the polydispersity index were measured by GPC. A reaction mechanism has been suggested to show the action of the Maghnite-H + during the reaction. Copyright © 2018 BCREC Group. All rights reserved Received: 8 th March 2017; Revised: 27 th July 2017; Accepted: 1 st August 2017; Available online: 22 nd January 2018; Published regularly: 2 nd April 2018 How to Cite : Kherroub, D.E., Belbachir, M., Lamouri, S. (2018). Green Polymerization of Hexadecamethylcyclooctasiloxane Using an Algerian Proton Exchanged Clay Called Maghnite-H + . Bulletin of Chemical Reaction Engineering & Catalysis , 13 (1): 36-46 (doi:10.9767/bcrec.13.1.993.36-46)
The purpose of this study was to synthesize polydimethylsiloxanes by heterogeneous catalysis, based on the polymerization of the hexadecamethylcyclooctasiloxane (D8) by an environment-friendly solid catalyst (Maghnite-H + ). Maghnite-H + is a natural Algerian clay of the montmorillonite type, prepared by activation with sulfuric acid, the impact of this activation was observable in the XRD spectrum, by the increase in the interlayer spacing (d001) resulting from the intercalation of hydronium ions between layers. The molecular structure of the obtained polymer was determined by different chemical methods of analysis such as IR, 1 H NMR, and 13 C NMR. The thermal behavior of the polysiloxane obtained was confirmed by DSC. In order to achieve the best possible yield and at the same time to get a polymer of high molecular mass, the operating conditions have been set at t = 8 h and T = 70 °C after the reaction was repeated several times. The average molecular mass and the polydispersity index were measured by GPC. A reaction mechanism has been suggested to show the action of the Maghnite-H + during the reaction.
In this study, Maghnite-H + was used as a solid heterogeneous catalyst to synthesize polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS), from the polymerization of hexadecamethylcyclooctasiloxane (D8). Maghnite-H + is obtained from an Algerian natural clay (research field of polymer chemistry laboratory at the University of Oran). After purification, treatment with sulfuric acid and proton intercalation, this clay leads to Maghnite-H + [4, 5] . The intercalation step associates the protons present in the acid with the sheets. This new catalyst was used to initiate the polymerization of various monomers [6, 7] , and also to synthesize different types of nanocomposites [8] [9] [10] . We are interested in the polymerization of D8 (Scheme 1a) by Maghnite-H + . The polymerization of siloxane monomers was carried out previously by different catalysts as phosphazene bases [11, 12] , strong bases [13, 14] , dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid [15] , triflic acid [16] , tris(pentafluorophenyl)borane [17] and trifluoromethanesulfonic acid [18] .
Mango (Mangifera indica L.) is an important tree which produce edible fruits. Different varieties of mango are available and well-studied. However, little attention has been shown to popular Ogbomoso variety especially for its endophytes and chemical profile. This work aimed at identifying endophytic fungi and carrying out proximate analysis as well as phytochemical analysis of the fruit. Potato Dextrose Agar was used as a medium for the isolation of fungi from the homogenized pulp. Proximate analysis was carried out using standard method of Association of Analytical Chemistry (AOAC). Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) was done to determine characteristic peaks and functional groups of compounds using Thermo Scientific Nicolet iS5 with iD1 transmission. Gas Chromatography- Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS) was used to study the chemical profile of the sample. Aspergillus niger. A. flavus and Rhizopus stolonifer were the identified endophytes. Moisture and lipid were observed to be highest (76.87%) and lowest (0.38%) respectively in the sample. The amount of carbohydrate was 18.93%. The FTIR result revealed the presence of NH2, OH, CH2, C=O (carboxylic) and N-H 1o and 2o amine as important functional groups. A total of 23 compounds were found in the methanolic extract of the sample where Imidazolidin-2-one (18.43%) was the principal compound. N, N-dibenzylhydroxylamine (15.36%), Methyl hexadecanoate (7.33%), Hexadecamethylcyclooctasiloxane (4.51%) were also present in considerable quantities. It is confirmed that the homogenized pulp of Ogbomoso variety of mango fruit is rich in phytochemicals that are useful especially in pharmaceutical industries.
