Water-dispersible polypyrrole nanospheres with diameters of less than 100 nm were synthesized in high yield without any templates, surfactants, or functional dopants by the introduction of 2,4-diaminodiphenylamine as an initiator into a reaction mixture of pyrrole monomer, oxidant, and acid. The initiator plays a critical role in tailoring the nanostructures of polypyrrole. 2,4-Diaminodiphenylamine interacts with acid to form cations, which combine with various anions to self-assemble resulting in different size nanomicelles. These nanomicelles, stabilized by initiator molecules, act as templates to encapsulate pyrrole and oxidant leading to the formation of nanospheres during polymerization. When smaller acids are used, smaller diameter sphere-like polypyrrole nanostructures are obtained. The as-synthesized polypyrrole nanospheres can then be used to fabricate highly conducting nitrogen-doped carbon nanospheres with controllable sizes of 50−220 nm with monodispersities up to 95% after pyrolysis. The size...
Summary The voltammetric oxidation of 2,4-diaminodiphenylamine, DDA, was examined in aqueous buffered solutions in the pH range 1–5 and in strong acid solutions (0.5–2.5 M H2SO4). In the first range of acidity oxidation occurs through the transfer of two electrons leading to 2-amino-N-phenyl-p-benzoquinonediimine. In strong acid solution the oxidized DDA undergoes hydrolysis giving rise to aniline and 2-amino-p-benzoquinone-4-monoimine. The latter readily oxidizes the original compound, chemically. In this way DDA oxidation shows only a one electron transfer. This mechanism was confirmed by comparing the oxidation products of DDA with pure compound expected from this oxidation by u.v. spectroscopy, thin layer chromatography and cyclic voltammetry.
Abstract 2-Aminophenazine-1-carboxylic acid has been obtained from the ester which resulted from the oxidative cyclization in boiling nitrobenzene of the methyl esters of both 2,4-diaminodiphenylamine-3- and 2′,3-diaminodiphenylamine-2-carboxylic acids. The acid was also prepared via the very unreactive nitrile, the latter being obtained from 2-amino-1-bromophenazine which was produced by the direct bromination of 2-aminophenazine.
Three sulfate-reducing bacterial strains (Desulfovibrio sp. strain SHV, Desulfococcus sp. strain WHC, and Desulfomicrobium sp. strain WHB) with the capacity to cometabolize 2-nitrodiphenylamine, 4-nitrodiphenylamine, and 2,4-dinitrodiphenylamine were newly isolated. Before breaking down the diphenylamine structure, these strains cometabolically reduce the nitrodiphenylamines to the corresponding aminodiphenylamines during anaerobic oxidation of the growth substrate lactate (Desulfovibrio strain SHV and Desulfomicrobium strain WHC) or benzoate (Desulfococcus strain WHB), leading to the formation of aniline and a smaller quantity of methylaniline. These compounds were not further metabolized by the sulfate reducers. The anaerobic metabolism of aminodiphenylamines also led to the formation of heterocyclic condensation products such as phenazine and acridine derivatives, provided that they contained an amino group in the ortho position of the diphenylamine (e.g., 2-aminodiphenylamine or 2,4-diaminodiphenylamine). In addition, low levels of indole and benzothiazole derivatives were identified, but these also were not further metabolized by the three sulfate-reducing strains.
A novel initiator-assisted polymerization is used for bulk synthesis of polypyrrole (PPy) nanoparticles by adding a catalytic amount of initiator 2,4-diaminodiphenylamine into pyrrole solution. Through simply modulating reaction parameters such as initiator concentrations, oxidant species, oxidant/monomer molar ratios and acidic media utilized, the chemical structure, nanomorphology, product yield, dispersibility, thermal stability, electrochemical activity, and conductivity of PPy nanoparticles are facilely optimized. The initiator copolymerized with pyrrole in the initial stages of polymerization, acting like bipyrrole and helping to nucleate the PPy main chains. The stronger oxidants and higher oxidant/monomer molar ratios used lead to PPy nanoparticles with higher π-π conjugation. Sphere-like PPy nanoparticles with average diameters of 80-300 nm show yield and conductivity with values up 73.5% and 10(-2)S/cm, respectively, and are readily dispersible in both water and N-methylpyrrolidone. The PPy nanoparticles are used as effective precursors for fabricating carbon nanoparticles with conductivity of 3.7S/cm. Nanocomposite membranes consisting of PPy nanoparticles and polysulfone matrix are fabricated by a phase-inversion technique and demonstrate much improved hydrophilicity, water permeability, and bovine serum albumin selectivity against pure polysulfone membranes.
2-Nitrodiphenylamine, 4-nitrodiphenylamine, and 2,4-dinitrodiphenylamine were anaerobically metabolized in sediment-water batch enrichments inoculated with mud from the German North Sea coast. The first intermediate in 2,4-dinitrodiphenylamine degradation was 2-amino-4-nitrodiphenylamine, which appeared in large (nearly stoichiometric) amounts before being completely reduced to 2,4-diaminodiphenylamine. Of the second theoretically expected metabolite, 4-amino-2-nitrodiphenylamine, only traces were detected by gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric analysis in highly concentrated extracts. In addition, low levels of 4-nitrodiphenylamine, which may be the product of ortho deamination of intermediately produced 2-amino-4-nitrodiphenylamine, were observed. 2-Nitrodiphenylamine and 4-nitrodiphenylamine were primarily reduced to 2-aminodiphenylamine and 4-aminodiphenylamine, respectively. Diphenylamine was never detected in any experiment as a theoretically possible intermediate. Results from studies with dense cell suspensions of anaerobic, aromatic-compound-mineralizing bacteria confirmed the transformation reactions, which were carried out by microorganisms indigenous to the anaerobic coastal water sediment.
