Abstract The present experiments were performed to investigate the potential role of central adrenergic neurons in regulating occurrence of yawning in rats. Intraperitoneal injection of tacrine (THA) or 9-amino-2,3,5,6,7,8-hexahydro-1 H -cyclopenta( b )-quinoline monohydrate HCl (NIK-247), cholinesterase inhibitors, induced yawning, which was markedly increased by pretreatment with the β-adrenoceptor antagonist, pindolol. The yawning evoked by tacrine or NIK-247 given alone or in combination with pindolol was inhibited by pretreatment with scopolamine but not by mecamylamine or spiperone. Treatment with tacrine or NIK-247 increased acetylcholine content of the striatum, but this effect was not enhanced by pindolol, which per se did not affect basal acetylcholine content. Moreover, pretreatment with the central adrenaline synthesis inhibitors, (±)-2,3-dichloro- α -methylbenzylamine HCl (LY-78335) and 2-cyclooctyl-2-hydroxyethylamine HCl (UK-1187A), increased tacrine-induced yawning. Subcutaneous injection of talipexole (B-HT 920), a dopamine D 2 receptor agonist, evoked yawning, which was also increased by pindolol, LY-78335, and UK-1187A. These receptors antagonists and synthesis inhibitors per se did not cause yawning responses. The results suggest that the β-adrenoceptor blockade and the inhibition of adrenaline synthesis facilitate the occurrence of yawning induced by cholinergic and dopaminergic agonists, and thus the central adrenergic neuronal systems may be implicated in the regulation of yawning responses.
Inhibitors of phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) and amphetamine were evaluated for their effects on the uptake of [3H]-norepinephrine (3H-NE) and the release of endogenous NE and dopamine (DA) from chopped rat brain tissues. Unlike amphetamine, all of PNMT inhibitors tested produced only slight inhibition of [3H]-NE uptake into chopped cerebral cortex. 2,3-Dichloro-alpha-methylbenzylamine (DCMB) and 7,8-dichloro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (SKF64139), but not 2-cyclooctyl-2-hydroxyethylamine (CONH) and 1-aminomethylcycloundecanol (CUNH) produced slight release of endogenous NE and DA from chopped hypothalami, but their effects were less pronounced than those produced by amphetamine.
Two hours after i.p. administration of 2-cyclooctyl-2-hydroxyethylamine (CONH), 1-aminomethylcycloundecanol (CUNH), 2,3-dichloro-α-methylbenzylamine (DCMB), or 7,8-dichloro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (SKF64139), the hypothalamic and brain stem epinephrine (EPI) contents of rat brain were decreased. Depletions of brain EPI with these phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) inhibitors reduced the rectal temperatures of rats at ambient temperatures of 8 and 22°C. The hypothermia in response to these PNMT inhibitors was due to decreased metabolism and cutaneous vasodilatation. The locomotor stimulant responses induced by thyrotropin-releasing hormone were also reduced by administration of any one of these PNMT inhibitors. On the other hand, acute administration of any of these PNMT inhibitors enhanced the reflex bradycardia induced by i.v. infusion of EPI. The data suggest that brain (particularly the hypothalamus and brain stem) EPI-containing neurons are involved in the regulation of body temperature, reflex bradycardia, and motor performance in the rat.
Acute administration of 2-cyclooctyl-2-hydroxyethylamine (CONH), a potent phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase inhibitor, produced time- and dose-related reductions of blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). CONH did not affect the blood pressure of age-paired normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY), or the heart rate of either animal group. CONH produced dose- and time-related reductions in epinephrine (Epi) levels in the hypothalamus and brainstem of both SHR and WKY. The drug also produced dose- and time-related reductions in hypothalamic and brainstem norepinephrine concentrations and elevations in dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations in both SHR and WKY. CONH was about equally effective in reducing brain norepinephrine and Epi concentrations in both animal strains, but CONH was more effective in elevating brain dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations in SHR than in WKY. Subchronic administration (3 days) of CONH produced a dose-related reduction in blood pressure in SHR, but had no affect on blood pressure in WKY. The changes in blood pressure in SHR were accompanied by a dose-related reduction in hypothalamic Epi concentrations, but the drug treatment produced no affect on the concentration of Epi in the brainstem. The results of this study suggest that brain Epi-containing neurons may be directly involved in the regulation of blood pressure or alternatively they may indirectly control cardiovascular function by modulating brain norepinephrine- and/or dopamine-neuronal activity.
Inhibitors [2-cyclooctyl-2-hydroxyethylamine (CONH), 1 aminomethylcycloundecanol (CUNH), 7,8-dichloro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (SKF64139), 2,3-dichloro-alpha-methylbenzylamine (DCMB), 8,9-dichloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-2-benzazepine(LY134046)] of phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) were found to reduce blood pressure in deoxycorticosterone-salt (DOCA-salt) hypertensive rats. CONH, CUNH and DCMB, but not SKF64139 and LY134046, also lowered blood pressure in normotensive control rats. All of the PNMT inhibitors tested lowered hypothalamic epinephrine (Epi) content in both DOCA-salt hypertensive and normotensive rats. DCMB, SKF64139 and LY134046 also lowered brainstem Epi in both animal groups. From these data a good correlation could not be made between the blood pressure lowering effects of PNMT inhibitors and their effects on hypothalamic Epi content as had been observed in other animal models of hypertension (e.g. spontaneously hypertensive rats).
