Thirteen novel (E)-α-(methoxyimino)benzeneacetate derivatives, the analogues of strobilurins, which contain two pharmacophoric substructures of the methyl (E)-methoxyiminoacetate moiety and 1,3,5-substituted pyrazole ring, were stereoselectively synthesized. It was found that the coupling reaction could give stereoselectively (E:Z ca. 14:1) the key intermediate material (E)-methyl 2-(hydroxyimino)-2-o-tolyl acetate (2). An X-ray crystallographic structure determination was carried out in a representative product. The preliminary bioassays indicated that all of the compounds 1 showed potent fungicidal activity against Rhizoctonia solani, Botrytis cinereapers, Gibberella zeae, Physalospora piricola, and Bipolaris mayclis. Keywords: Strobilurins; (E)-α-(methoxyimino)benzeneacetates; 1,3,5-substituted pyrazoles; fungicidal
Abstract We report the catalytic ozonation as a viable tool in the oxidative degradation of cresol isomers. SiO2-supported metal catalysts with 2.5 and 7.5 wt.% (Ni, Fe, Mn, V) were employed in this ozone initiated oxidation reactions. All catalysts were characterized using various analytical techniques such as XRD, FT-IR, SEM-EDX, TEM, ICP-OES, and BET-surface area analyses. XRD studies revealed the existence of Fe as Fe2O3 and Mn as Mn3O4 on the supports’ surface. EDX results displayed a dispersion homogeneity of the metals over the surface of SiO2 support, and the ICP-OES analysis confirm the concentration of a loaded metal. The degradation of cresols (m-, o-, p-cresol) was investigated by aerating each substrate with ozone (0.123 mg/L) in a glass reactor from 6 to 24 h of reaction time at ambient reaction conditions. The catalytic activities of various metal loaded SiO2 catalysts in terms of conversion and selectivity were studied. The reaction products of various cresol isomers were identified using GC–MS analysis. m-Tolyl acetate (m-TA), 2,3-dihydroxytoluene (2,3-DT), diethyl maleate (DM) and diethyl oxalate (DO) were the identified products in the oxidative degradation of m-Cresol. Whereas, o-cresol yielded o-tolyl acetate (o-TA), 2,5-dihydroxytoluene (2,5-DT), DM and DO as products. p-Cresol produced p-tolyl acetate (p-TA), 3,4-dihydroxytoluene (3,4-DT), DM and DO as reaction products. The Ni(2.5%)/SiO2 catalyst possess excellent activity towards the conversion of m-cresol (85.0%), whereas, Fe(2.5%)/SiO2 led to highest conversion for both o-cresol (76.3%) and p-cresol (87.0%).
Treatment of any of the seven isomeric hexenoic acids with polyphosphoric acid at 100° yields essentially the same mixture of cyclohex-2-enone, 2-methylcyclopent-2-enone and hexan-4- and 5-olide. Comparable results are obtained with heptenoic and octenoic acids. Intramolecular acylation of these acids in the presence of trifluoroacetic anhydride is shown to be dependent on the structure and stereochemistry of the acids. The formation of cyclohept-2-enone from hept-6-enoic acid is reported. Concentrated sulphuric acid in acetic anhydride is shown to convert hex- and hept-5-enoic acid into phenyl and o-tolyl acetate, respectively. Some improved syntheses of alkenoic acids are reported.
Ozone initiated oxidation of environmentally unfriendly organic compounds is one of the powerful tools that is utilized to convert and/or completely mineralize these substances. Here we have adopted the adsorption phenomenon in combination with ozonation (0.123 mg/L) of the hazardous cresol isomers mounted in a glass column. An oxide of aluminum (γ-Al2O3) or silicon (SiO2) was used as an adsorbent material. These materials were characterized using XRD, SEM and TEM techniques. Various cresols (m-, o-, p-cresol) were oxidized for different time intervals, viz. 1, 3 and 5 h. The γ-Al2O3 adsorbent was found to have a relatively high catalytic effect towards conversion of m-cresol (52%) into oxidation products, whereas SiO2 promoted the conversion of o-cresol (57%) and p-cresol (62%) the most. The resultant oxidation products that were identified using GC–MS were dominantly isomeric from all three cresols. Oxidation of m-cresol produced m-tolyl acetate (m-TA), 2,3-dihydroxytoluene (2,3-DT) and diethyl maleate (DM) whereas o-cresol produced o-tolyl acetate (o-TA), 2,5-dihydroxytoluene (2,5-DT) and DM. Finally, the oxidation of p-cresol produced p-tolyl acetate (p-TA), 3,4-dihydroxytoluene (3,4-DT) and DM. Amongst all identified oxidation products, tolyl acetates recorded highest percentage selectivities from all adsorbates especially in 1 h reactions. The ozone initiated oxidation of various cresol isomers was explored using various metal oxide (γ-Al2O3 or SiO2) material as adsorbents. The metal oxide adsorbent materials were characterized using XRD, SEM and TEM techniques. The effect of adsorption and ozonation time on percentage conversion and selectivity towards reaction products upon ozonation of various cresols is emphasised. The positively identified oxidation products contains various tolyl acetates, dihydroxytoluenes and diethyl maleates that are isomeric to the cresol isomer used. The ethanol mediated esterification of carboxylic acid to produce tolyl acetate as product is reported.
The rearrangement of p-tolyl acetate in nitrobenzene solution catalysed by aluminium chloride gives the o-hydroxyketone only as rearrangement product. o-Tolyl acetate under the same treatment yields mainly the para-substituted hydroxyketone together with a small amount only of the ortho-substituted compound. Both of these rearrangements appear to be intramolecular and the interpretation proposed for the titanium tetrachloride catalysed transformations of these esters may also be applied in the present case.
