A gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric procedure is described for the identification and differentiation of sedative-hypnotics and their metabolites in urine. The following 24 barbiturates and thirteen other hypnotics could be detected: acecarbromal, allobarbital, amobarbital, aprobarbital, barbital, brallobarbital, bromisoval, (sec)butabarbital, butalbital, butobarbital, carbromal, clomethiazole, crotylbarbital, cyclobarbital, cyclopentobarbital, diethylallylacetamide, dipropylbarbital, glutethimide, guaifenesin, ethinamate, heptabarbital, hexobarbital, meprobamate, methaqualone, metharbital, methohexital, methylphenobarbital, methyprylone, pentobarbital, phenobarbital, propallylonal, pyrithyldione, secobarbital, thiobutabarbital, thiopental, vinbarbital and vinylbital. The procedure presented is integrated in a general screening procedure (general unknown analysis) for several groups of drugs detecting over 300 drugs and over 1000 of their metabolites. It includes cleavage of conjugates by acid hydrolysis, isolation by liquid-liquid extraction, derivatization by acetylation, separation by capillary gas chromatography, and identification by computerized mass spectrometry. Using mass chromatography with the selected ions m/z 83, 117, 141, 167, 169, 207, 221 and 235, the presence of barbiturates, other hypnotics and/or their metabolites was indicated. The identity of positive signals in the reconstructed mass chromatograms was confirmed by a visual or computerized comparison of the stored full mass spectra with the reference spectra. The sample preparation, mass chromatograms, reference mass spectra and gas chromatographic retention indices are documented.
Urinary metabolism of 5-beta-bromoallyl-5-isopropylbarbituric acid (propallylonal, Noctal), was studied in humans after an oral dose of 400 mg. About 25% of the dose was eliminated via kidneys within 48 h. Besides the unchanged drug, six metabolites could be detected. The main metabolic pathway is the hydrolysis of the beta-bromoallyl side chain to an acetonyl function (approximately 15%). The acetonyl function is subsequently reduced to the corresponding alcohol. Loss of water leads to aprobarbital which is partially oxidized to aprobarbital epoxide. Two further metabolites are formed by partial and complete oxidative degradation of the beta-bromoallyl side chain. In contrast to previously published results, no N-methylpropyllalonal could be detected. The plasma protein binding was determined by ultrafiltration (63%). Analysis of propallylonal in plasma and whole blood gave evidence for equal distribution between plasma and erythrocytes.
A mass spectrometric screening method for barbiturates in serum was developed. Under electron impact conditions barbiturates fragment by loss of HNCO. A ‘constant neutral loss’ scan of 43 u provides, therefore, an indication of the presence of members of this toxicologically relevant class of compounds. Subsequent identification is possible either by ‘daughter’ or by ‘parent ion’ scans. The detection limit for propallylonal, buto- and phenobarbital was determined as better than 1 μg ml−1 serum.
β-Diethylaminoethyl diphenylpropylacetate hydrochloride (SKF 525-A) increased the LD50s of nikethamide, pentylenetetrazol, and picrotoxin in albino mice when given intraperitoneally 1 hour earlier. The maximum action of picrotoxin in mice subcutaneously pretreated with SKF 525-A developed in about 4 hours; action was still marked at 8, but largely absent at 16 hours. SKF 525-A induced full effect when given intraperitoneally immediately before picrotoxin. It also markedly increased the potency of picrotoxin in normal and in barbitalized rats, using a multiple injection technique. However, SKF 525-A did not influence the toxicity of pentylenetetrazol in normal or barbitalized rats employing this technique. Barbital greatly increased the LD50s of pentylenetetrazol and picrotoxin in rats, as shown by the multiple injection method. SKF 525-A markedly prolonged the hypnotic effect of propallylonal without increasing the number of delayed deaths. Its use is recommended for biotransformation studies of the four substances used.
A simple gas chromatographic method for the determination of commercially available barbiturates used as hypnotics is presented. Saturated ammonium sulfate is added to the serum sample. The mixture is extracted three times with chloroform. The organic layer is dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated. The residue is dissolved in ethyl acetate/acetic acid (100 ml + 1 ml) and an aliquot is injected into the gas chromatograph. The precision in the series is between 3.0 and 7.2%; the recovery--with the exception of propallylonal--between 91 and 108%; the detection limit from 1.7 to 6.9 mumol/l. The specificity of the method was checked by comparing 1) the results obtained before and after additional purification of the extract by thin-layer chromatography, and 2) the retention times of about 100 drugs in the gas chromatographic systems that are used.
The n-propyl-(PBB), ethyl-(EBB), and methyl-(MBB) homologs of propallylonal (IPBB) were prepared. Using albino rats, the intraperitoneal ED50s and LD50s were determined, as well as PD50s against pentylenetetrazol. Effectiveness in developing tolerance and cross-tolerance against propallylonal by feeding low concentrations in the diet for two weeks was in decreasing order: EBB, probarbital, IPBB, PBB, MBB, and 5-(2-bromoallyl)-5-(1-methylbutyl)barbituric acid. Inter- and intralaboratory variations occurred as to incidence of delayed death (EBB, IPBB) and in sex variation (IPBB). Rat electrocardiograms taken after administration of the bromoallyl barbiturates revealed no significant changes. In mice, PBB was most effective and IPBB least effective in protecting against a surely fatal dose of strychnine when given at various intervals of time after the barbiturate. None of the bromoallyl barbiturates gave complete protection when given one hour before a dosage range of 2.5–20.2 mg./Kg. of strychnine sulfate subcutaneously. Phenobarbital sodium was superior to the bromoallyl compounds against strychnine lethality.
