The structure of the third pseudopolymorphic hydrate of brucine, brucine-water (1/2) [systematic name 2,3-dimethoxystrychnidin-10-one-water (1/2)], C23H26N2O4 . 2H2O, has been determined at 130 K. The asymmetric unit comprises two independent brucine molecules and four water molecules of solvation. The four water molecules form uncommon cyclic hydrogen-bonded homomolecular R2/2(8) tetramer rings, which then form primary hydrogen-bonded chain substructures, extending down the 21 screw axis in the unit cell. The two brucine molecules are linked peripherally to these substructures by either single O-H...O(brucine) or O-H...N(brucine) hydrogen bonds.
The alkaloids strychnine (strychnidin-10-one) and brucine (2,3-dimethoxystrychnidin-10-one) were first used by Fischer1 in 1899 for the separation of enantiomeric mixtures of optically active amino acids (as their N-benzoyl-protected derivatives). Since that time both of these alkaloids have been variously employed on a hit-or-miss basis for the resolution of chiral organic compounds, although of the two, brucine has proved to be the better one.
The general health of a German shepherd dog had deteriorated slightly when it was found after being loose for one hour. After 10 hours of observation, the dog showed signs of pain for the first time and signs of poisoning, such as tenseness of muscles, slight opisthotonus, regurgitation, salivation, mydriasis, dyspnoea and cyanosis, were observed; it died 15 minutes after showing the first clinical signs but it had no seizures or tetanic spasms at any time. A postmortem examination did not reveal any pathological changes. A screening test for alkaloids was positive for strychnine (strychnidin-10-one). The presence of strychnine was confirmed and its concentration was determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry in urine (728.5 ng/ml) and in the stomach contents (44.6m microg/g). No strychnine was detected in the dog's serum, but traces of brucine (2,3-dimethoxystrychnidin-10-one), the dimethoxy derivative of strychnine, were detected. This case was compared with other strychnine poisonings recorded in the authors' laboratory over the previous six years, taking into account the species, type of samples, the clinical signs and their duration, the postmortem findings, and the concentrations of strychnine. This was the only case to show such an atypical time course of clinical signs.
ABSTRACTA poly(Alizarin Red S)-conducting polymer was prepared on glassy carbon electrodes by multiple scan cyclic voltammetry using 0.1 M Alizarin Red S in pH 7 phosphate buffer. The poly(Alizarin Red S)-modified electrode was used for the direct determination of 2,3-dimethoxystrychnidin-10-one (brucine). The prepared poly(Alizarin Red S) electrodes were characterized by impedance spectroscopy and cyclic voltammetry. The influence of the supporting electrolyte, pH, and scan rate on the brucine current was characterized. The second cycle and the current signal value were selected to be optimum for quantitaive measurements. An irreversible oxidative peak and two pairs of well-defined peaks were obtained at the poly(Alizarin Red S)–glassy carbon electrode. The current from the second scan increased linearly with the concentration of brucine from 30 to 1,000 nM. The limit of detection for brucine was 5.0 × 10−9 M. The developed method was successfully used for the determination of brucine in human urine.
Neostrychnine, 20,21-didehydro-21,22-dihydrostrychnidin-10-one, C 21 H 22 N 2 O 2 , contains an alicyclic enamine unit in which the N atom is located at a bridgehead, a fact of critical importance to an understanding of the manner in which it reacts with potential electrophiles, including singlet oxygen, O 2 ( 1 Δ g ). The X-ray structure shows that the steric constraints within the σ framework demand a high degree of pyramidalization of the N atom, which is independent of the fact that this atom is part of an enamine system. These data support the conclusion that the formation of an immonium species with a double bond at the N atom is likely to be highly unfavourable
Three simple, rapid, and sensitive spectrophotometric methods for the determination of traces and ultratraces of tellurium(IV) were studied. These methods were based on either the oxidation of 4-bromophenylhydrazine (4-BPH) by tellurium in a basic medium and coupling with N-(1-naphthyl)ethylenediamine dihydrochloride (NEDA) to give a purple-colored product, the oxidation of 3-methyl-2-benzothazoline hydrazone hydrochloride (MBTH) by tellurium in a basic medium and coupling with chromotropic acid (CA) to yield a red-colored species, or the oxidation of 2,3-dimethoxystrychnidin-10-one (2,3-DMSO) by tellurium in an acidic medium to yield an orange-colored derivative. Beer’s law was obeyed in the range 1.0–25 μg/mL (purple-colored product), 0.7–20 μg/mL (red-colored species), and 0.3–15 μg/mL (orange-colored derivative). The reaction conditions and other analytical parameters were investigated to enhance the sensitivity of the proposed methods. The tolerance limit of various ions has been studied. The methods were applied to the analysis of tellurium in water samples (waste, river, lake, and spring), plant materials, soil samples, and telluride thin films. The results obtained were superior to those obtained using the reported method. The performances of the proposed methods were evaluated in terms of ‘t’-test and variance ratio ‘f’-test, which indicate the advances of the proposed methods over reported methods.
The crystal structures of brucine (2,3-di­methoxy­strychnidin-10-one), C23H26N2O4, brucine acetone solvate, C23H26N2O4·C3H6O, and brucine 2-propanol solvate dihydrate, C23H26N2O4·C3H7O·2H2O, have been determined. Crystals of brucine and its 2-propanol solvate dihydrate exhibit similar monolayer sheet packing, whereas crystals of the acetone solvate adopt a different mode of packing, as brucine pillars. The solvent appears to control the brucine self-assembly on the basis of common donor–acceptor properties of the surfaces.
