Aim The purpose of this study was to compare the effect of AA、15-HETE、15-KETE and 8(S),15(S)-DiHETE on hypoxic and normoxic rabbit pulmonary arterial rings and to discuss their roles in the formation of PA hypertension.Methods Twelve neonatal rabbits were randomly divided into two groups(n=6):the normoxic group breathing fresh gas(FiO_2 =21%) and the hypoxic group breathing hypoxic gas(FiO_2=10%).After 9 days,they were anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium,and the chest was opened for removal of the heart and lungs en bloc,then PA rings(0.5~1.5 mm in diameter and 3 mm length) were prepared.We used tension studies of PA rings to observe the effect of AA、15-HETE、15-KETE and 8(S),15(S)-DiHETE on hypoxic and normoxic rabbit pulmonary arterial rings.Results ① AA、15-HETE、15-KETE and 8(S),15(S)-DiHETE constricted normoxic rabbit PA rings in a dose-dependent manner,respectively.Constriction of normoxic rabbit PA rings induced by 15-KETE、8(S),15(S)-DiHETE was significant,but that of AA、15-HETE wasn′t significant.② AA、15-HETE、15-KETE and 8(S),15(S)-DiHETE increased hypoxic rabbit PA rings' tension.Constriction of AA、15-HETE on rabbit PA rings in hypoxic group was significantly greater than that of normoxic group(P0.05),but the response strength of four substances to hypoxic rabbit PA rings wasn′t significantly different(P0.05).③ Constriction of 15-KETE on rabbit PA rings in normoxic group was significantly greater than that of hypoxia group(P0.05).Conclusion 8(S),15(S)-DiHETE which was 15-HETE′s metabolite can play a role in the formation of PA hypertension.However,15-KETE may not participate in the process of rabbit PA constriction resulting from chronic hypoxia.
We have purified and characterized the guinea pig eosinophil chemotactic factor of anaphylaxis (ECF-A), an activity previously described in diffusates from sensitized lung challenged with specific Ag that appeared to selectively attract eosinophils from mixed leukocyte populations. Time course studies showed that the release of ECF-A from challenged presensitized guinea pig lung fragments closely paralleled the release of immunoreactive leukotriene B4 (iLTB4) and histamine. However, the majority of ECF-A (greater than 80%) and iLTB4 (greater than 79%) was extractable with the lipid fraction from the methanol wash of Sep-Pak-extracted diffusate, whereas histamine remained in the aqueous phase. A comparable neutrophil chemotactic activity was also found in the methanol extracts of the anaphylactic diffusates. By using a combination of HPLC and specific RIA, greater than 60% of ECF-A was attributable to LTB4. A second eosinophil chemotactic activity was also identified and coeluted (on both reverse phase and straight phase HPLC) with the synthetic standard 8(S),15(S)-dihydroxy-5,9,11,13(Z,E,Z,E)eicosatetraenoic acid (8(S),15(S)-diHETE). This was confirmed as 8(S),15(S)-diHETE by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Platelet-activating factor and histamine had negligible activity for guinea pig eosinophils, compared with synthetic LTB4 (p less than 0.05, 10(-9) and 10(-8) M; p less than 0.01, 10(-7) to 5 x 10(-6) M). In addition, synthetic 8(S),15(S)-diHETE had 3 times less activity than LTB4 at optimal chemotactic concentrations (10(-6) and 10(-7) M, respectively). Thus, guinea pig ECF-A appears to be largely attributable to lipoxygenase products of arachidonic acid, namely LTB4 and 8(S),15(S)-diHETE. Because guinea pig ECF-A was equally active on neutrophils (greater than 96% purity), it can no longer be considered a selective eosinophil chemoattractant.
Introduction In brain, docosahexaenoic (DHA) and arachidonic (ArA) acids are precursors of oxygenated lipid mediators involved in physiological and pathophysiological processes. Their characterization in free form and esterified in phospholipids, in rat brain homogenates, is crucial for better understanding their biological roles. Methods Free PUFA oxygenated derivatives were extracted from exanguinated rat brain homogenates by SPE and analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Results Several oxygenated metabolites derived from ArA and DHA are found in exsanguinated and non-exsanguinated brain, either free or esterified in phospholipids. Mono-hydroxylated metabolites were the main derivatives, however, measurable amounts of di-hydroxylated products such as 8(S),15(S)-diHETE and protectin DX/10(S),17(S)-diHDoHE, as well as prostanoids were detected. Metabolites formed via 12-LOX and 15-LOX, two enzymes notably found in blood cells, were decreased in exsanguinated brains. Conclusions These results obtained in normal rats deserve further research in pathophysiological conditions, especially in neurodegenerative diseases.
Objective To compare the effect of 15-HETE、15-KETE and 8(S),15(S)-diHETE on isolated hypoxic and normoxic rat pulmonary arterial rings and to discuss their role in the formation of pulmonary arteria(PA) hypertension.Methods Sixteen SD rats were randomly divided into two groups(n8): normal group breathing fresh air(FiO-2 21%) and hypoxic group breathing hypoxic air(N-2 90%,O-2 10%).After 9 days,the rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium(40 mg·kg~(-1)),and the chest was opened for removal of the heart and lungs en bloc and PA rings(0.5～1.5 mm in diameter and 3 mm in length) were prepared.Tension studies of PA rings was used to observe the effect of 15-HETE,15-KETE and 8(S),15(S)-diHETE on isolated hypoxic and normoxic rat pulmonary arterial rings.Results (1) 15-HETE,15-KETE and 8(S),15(S)-diHETE gradually increased PA rings tension in a dose-dependent manner in the normal and hypoxic group,respectively;(2) Constriction effect of 15-HETE,15-KETE on rat PA rings in hypoxic group was significantly greater than that in normal group,but the constriction effect of 8(S),15(S)-diHETE on rat PA rings between normal and hypoxic groups was statistically not significantly different.(3) Contractility effect of 15-KETE,8(S),15(S)-diHETE on normoxic rat PA rings was greater than that of 15-HETE;however,the constriction effect of 15-KETE on hypoxic rat PA rings was greater than that of 15-HETE and 8(S),15(S)-diHETE.Conclusion 15-KETE and 8(S),15(S)-diHETE may play a role in the formation of PA hypertension.
