By refluxing pyridine with 2,3-dibromopropionic acid amide in acetonitrile, amide of 3-bromo-2-pyridiniumbromidopropionic acid I was synthesized. The latter is inert toward the second molecule of pyridine under the used conditions. Compound I was found to react with triphenylphosphine to form a mixture of 3-triphenylphosphoniumbromidopropionitrile II and 1-triphenylphosphoniumbromido-2-pyridiniumbromidoethane III. Schemes of reactions were suggested involving attack of phosphine on the carbonyl group as the first stage. The reaction of α-bromoacrylic acid amide with triphenylphosphine was shown to yield also compound II. Evidently, this reaction proceeds through intermediate formation of enolphosphonium salt.
Abstract We present a new pulse sequence that conditionally excites I spin magnetization only in the presence of a nonzero heteronuclear coupling to an S spin. The pulse sequence, referred to as the reverse INEPT pathway selective pulse or RIPSP, generates a pure I spin rotation by an angle that depends upon the heteronuclear coupling constant in I n S spin systems. Experimental demonstrations are shown in 13 C labeled chloroform, dichloromethane, and toluene samples and in unlabeled 2,3-dibromopropionic acid and brucine samples.
Abstract3-Benzoyl-2,3-dibromopropionic acid reacts with 4-substituted o-phenylenediamines to give 3-aryl-2-carboxymethylene-1,2-dihydroquinoxalines.
The flame retardant tris(2,3-dibromopropyl)phosphate (Tris-BP) is converted to products which are mutagenic for Salmonella typhimurium TA 100 in the presence of rat liver microsomes, NADPH and oxygen. Other bromopropyl-compounds were also mutagenic; 2,3-dibromopropene and 2,3-dibromopropionic acid were directly mutagenic, whereas 2,3-dibromopropanol and tris(2-bromopropyl)phosphate were weakly mutagenic after addition of liver microsomes and cofactors. Typical in vivo and in vitro inhibitors of cytochrome P-450 inhibited Tris-BP mutagenicity. The effects of inducers of cytochrome P-450 on Tris-BP mutagenicity was dependent on the concentration of mutagen and microsomal protein in the assay, indicating complexity in the kinetics involved when dealing with possible multiple pathways that lead to mutagenicity. Addition of glutathione strongly inhibited Tris-BP mutagenicity. It is suggested that Tris-BP is oxidized to a reactive electrophile, possibly the 2-keto derivative, which could react with nucleophilic groups in DNA and thus lead to mutagenic events.
3-(Triphenylphosphoniochlorido)acrylic and 2,3-dichloropropionic acids react with triphenylphosphine to form 1,2-bis(triphenylphosphoniochlorido)ethane. Under analogous conditions, 2,3-dibromopropionic acid undergoes debromination followed by triphenylphosphine addition to give, after water treatment, 3-(triphenylphosphoniobromido)propionic acid. 2,3-Dihalopropionitriles react similarly, providing 3-(triphenylphosphoniohalido) propionitriles. The reaction of 2,3-dibromopropionamide with triphenylphosphine was performed to show that E-(triphenylphosphoniobromido)acrylic acid is capable, by contrast to what was reported previously, of reacting with triphenylphosphine. Pyridine forms with 2,3-dihalopropionic acids vinylpyridinium halides, while the reactions with aliphatic amines gives rise to dehydrohalogenation products.
An alternative pulse scheme which simplifies and improves the recently proposed P.E.COSY experiment is suggested for the retention of connected or unconnected transitions in a coupled spin system. An important feature of the proposed pulse scheme is the improved phase characteristics of the diagonal peaks. A comparison of various experiments designed for this purpose, namely COSY-45, E.COSY, P.E.COSY and the present scheme (A.E.COSY), is also presented. The suppression of unconnected transitions and the measurement of scalar coupling constants and their relative signs are illustrated from A.E.COSY spectra of 2,3-dibromopropionic acid and 2-(2-thienyl)pyridine.
The 60 Mc/s proton resonance spectrum of 2,3-dibromopropionic acid is reported and analysed as an ABC system. The relative signs of the geminal and vicinal coupling constants observed have been determined by the double irradiation method and confirmed by experiments at 15·086 Mc/s. The two types of coupling constant are found to have opposite signs and to be large, the geminal one being ∓9·9 c.p.s. and the vicinal ones ±10·8 c.p.s. and ±4·6 c.p.s.
The synthesis, investigation of the structure, separation, and x-ray diffraction analysis of diastereomeric aziridine-2-carboxylic acid derivatives obtained from 2,3-dibromopropionic acid methyl ester or amide and methyl esters of amino acids are described.
The correct use of composite pulses in multiple quantum NMR spectroscopy is described using the conventional sequence for 1-dimensional multiple-quantum filtration. The criteria for correct composite pulse selection which gives improvement in the NMR spectra are given. The effects of choosing the correct composite pulse were demonstrated for 2,3-dibromopropionic acid. The composite pulses of R. Tycko et al. (1985) are effective in compensating for pulse errors when applied to an arbitrary initial d. operator. [on SciFinder (R)]
The use of sign alteration of cross-peak multiplet patterns in phase-sensitive 2-dimensional spectral pattern recognition is discussed. Illustrative results on 2,3-dibromopropionic acid are presented. [on SciFinder (R)]
Abstract The flip angle dependence of the line intensities in gated double-resonance FT NMR experiments on the strongly coupled spin systems 2,3-dibromothiophene, 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, vinyl acetate, and 2,3-dibromopropionic acid is shown to follow the theory of Shaublin, Hohener, and Ernst. A general method for analysis of the flip-angle-dependent intensities in terms of spin level population differences is described, and it is demonstrated that the variation of line intensities with flip angle is sensitive to the relative signs of spin-spin couplings and to the mechanism of spin relaxation.
