Benzidine (Bzd) and monoacetylbenzidine (MoAcBzd) were found in the urine of workers exposed to benzidine-based azo dyes. A colorimetric screening method, based on the reaction of extracted free aromatic amines with 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene-sulfonic acid (TNBS), was used with a specific electron-capture gas chromatographic (EC-GC) method. Alkaline hydrolyzable conjugates of Bzd and 2,4-diaminoazobenzene (DiAmAzBz) were found together with free DiAmAzBz and traces of 3,3'-dimethylbenzidine (DiMeBzd) and 3,3'-dimethoxybenzidine (DiMxBzd). The presence of a known human bladder carcinogen (Bzd) and its metabolites in the urine of workers exposed to benzidine-based azo dyes is a cause for concern.
Linear isotherms have been obtained on wool, at 40°, 60° and 80°C, with derivatives of azobenzene. In most cases with truly non-ionic dyes, the plot of –δμ°/RT against 1/T also appears to be linear, indicating a constant heat of dyeing. With the weakly acidic 4-carboxy- and 4-sulphonamido-azobenzene, and the weakly basic 2,4-diaminoazobenzene, the heat of dyeing is not constant, probably owing to variation in the extent of ionization at different temperatures. The most soluble of the truly non-ionic dyes examined also showed a variable heat of dyeing. Non-ionic dyes have low affinity for wool and, consequently, low fibre saturation values.
Impurities of aromatic amines in the azo dye and pigment, Direct Black 38 and Pigment Yellow 12, and in vitro stability of the dye were determined. These factors can affect the results of studies designed to ascertain whether the two compounds are metabolized to potential carcinogens in hamsters. Procedures for removing impurities from the two compounds are also presented. Electron-capture gas chromatography of the heptafluorobutyryl derivatives of the impurities and degradation products was used to satisfy all the analytical requirements of the experiments. Major impurities found in Direct Black 28 were benzidine, 4-aminobiphenyl and 2,4-diaminoazobenzene; whereas, only 3,3'-dichlorobenzidine was found in Pigment Yellow 12. Stability studies of the purified dye conducted in water and in urine from hamsters and humans indicated that the dye would not degrade under the conditions used for collecting and assaying samples from a metabolism experiment. However, within 48 hours at 25 and 37.5 degrees C, the dye did degrade to known carcinogens in both hamster and human urine. Such degradation not only points out the need for proper storage of samples from metabolism studies but suggests that industrial effluents containing the dye should be properly treated before release into the environment.
The interaction products of normal cucurbit[n]urils (n = 7, 8; Q[7] Q[8]) and a sym- tetramethyl-substituted cucurbit[6]uril derivative (TMeQ[6]) with the hydrochloride salts of 2,4-diaminoazobenzene (g·HCl) were investigated in aqueous solution using 1H NMR spectroscopy, electronic absorption spectroscopy, as well as single crystal X-ray diffraction. The 1H NMR spectra analysis established a basic interaction model in which inclusion complexes with a host:guest ratio of 1:1 form for the TMeQ[6] and Q[7] cases, while they form with a host:guest ratio of 1:2 for the Q[8] case. Commonly, the hosts selectively bound to the phenyl moieties of the guests. Absorption spectrophotometric analysis in aqueous solution defined the stability of the host–guest inclusion complexes at pH 3.2. Quantitatively, at this pH, complexes with a host:guest ratio of 1:1—those with smaller hosts TMeQ[6] and Q[7]—formed with logK values between 6 and 7. That with host Q[8] and a host:guest ratio of 1:2 formed with a logK value of 10.8. Single crystal X-ray structures of the inclusion complexes TMeQ[6]–g·HCl and Q[8]–g·HCl showed the phenyl moiety of the guest inserted into the host cavity. This result supports the solution-based 1H NMR spectroscopic study.
The activities of key enzymes of glycolysis and of the glucose shunt as well as the capacity of lactic acid formation were determined in the high-speed tissue supernatant of the transplantable Albert hepatoma of mouse [originally produced by oral application of chrysoidin (2,4-diaminoazobenzene) on C57 Black mice]. Furthermore, the particle-bound hexokinase activity was determined. The following results were obtained: In the hepatoma the activities of aldolase, pyruvate kinase and lactic dehydrogenase are hardly altered compared with normal liver. The activities of hexokinase and phosphofructokinase are increased 2,5-fold, those of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase 2-fold. The capacity for lactic acid formation from glucose is 7 times as high in the hepatoma supernatant. Strong differences emerge from the liver-to-hepatoma relationship in terms of intracellular distribution of the hexokinase (total homogenate 1 : 5, supernatant 1 : 2,5 and particle-bound hexokinase activity 1 : 18). A summarizing consideration of all the results obtained so far for the Albert hepatoma shows that this malignoma departss in several biochemical parameters from the "Molecular Correlation Concept" maintained by Weber, providing more evidence for the individuality of tumors.
Oxidation of 2,4-diaminoazobenzene and its 5-methyl- and 5-butoxyderivatives with oxygen in the system copper(I) chloride-pyridine gives, in addition to polymers, mixtures of the corresponding bis(2-phenyl-1,2,3-triazolo)[4,5a:4′5′h]phenazines and bis(2-phenyl-1,2,3-triazolo)[4, 5c:4′5′g]-9,10-diazaphenanthrenes.
IN the preceding paper Ray and Jung (1951) (Kinosita and Harada, 1938) ; and Chrysoidine R (5-methyl-2,4-diaminoazobenzene) promoting tar-induced cancers (Forssman, 1931) . Thirdly, in vivo metabolism studies of Butter Yellow have revealed the splitting of the azo link, each nitrogen atom being reduced to an amino group (WiRiams, 1947). Thus, the sphtting of the azo compounds of fluorene would be expected to produce an active carcinogen, 2-aminofluorene.
