A simple Cu2+-selective ratiometric fluorescence signaling probe based on the hydrolysis of dansylhydrazine was developed. Dansylhydrazine 1 showed prominent ratiometric fluorescence signaling behavior toward Cu2+ ions in a 50% aqueous (pH 7.4) acetonitrile solution. The ratiometric signaling behavior was due to the Cu2+-assisted hydrolysis of the yellow-colored fluorescent dansylhydrazine to strongly blue-fluorescent dansyl acid. The Cu2+-selective signaling of probe 1 was not affected by the presence of biologically important metal ions. The ratiometric signaling of Cu2+ by 1 was possible with a detection limit of 6.0 × 10−8 M (3.8 ppb). In addition, the signaling of Cu2+ in biological samples using synthetic urine was also tested.
Abstract A structurally simple fluorescence probe, dansyl acid ( DA ), was reported in the present study. The probe could selectively and sensitively respond to pH from 7.00 to 2.00 in aqueous solution with fluorescence “turn-off” and “turn-on” dual-responses under two different excitation wavelengths. The mechanism of response was further clarified by NMR, UV–vis spectrometry and single crystal X-ray crystallography, which revealed that the pH-induced changes of fluorescence and UV–vis absorption were due to the protonation of nitrogen atom in the dimethylamino group. The fluorescent imaging of NIH 3T3 cells were also provided, which demonstrated the probe was applicable in monitoring intracellular H + .
A novel dual-response fluorescent sensor based on a diarylethene photoswitching unit and a dansylhydrazine functional group has been synthesized. The compound exhibited high selectivity for Fe3+ and Cu2+ with independent fluorescence signal outputs. In the presence of Fe3+, the sensor formed a 1:1 metal complex, resulting in a remarkable "turn-off" fluorescence signal. On the other hand, its fluorescence intensity was notably enhanced (turn-on) and a color change from bright yellow to bright blue was observed when the sensor interacted with Cu2+, which was due to the hydrolysis reaction of the dansyl acid dye, as confirmed by high-resolution mass spectrometry-electrospray ionization and infrared spectrum. The detection limits were 9.73 × 10-8 mol L-1 for Fe3+ and 3.49 × 10-7 mol L-1 for Cu2+, respectively. From the unimolecular platform, two molecular logic circuits were constructed using the fluorescence emission intensity at 557/494 nm (Fe3+/Cu2+) as the outputs and the combined stimuli of Fe3+/ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, Cu2+, and UV/vis as the inputs. In addition, the sensor was successfully used to determine Fe3+ in water samples from Ganjiang River and soil samples from Nanchang fields.
Abstract A new chromogenic and fluorogenic probe for the discriminative signaling of sulfide and azide ions using a nitrobenzoxadiazole (NBD)-dansyl dyad 3 has been investigated. Probe 3 showed prominent colorimetric and fluorescence signaling behavior toward sulfide and azide ions in aqueous tetrahydrofuran (THF). Anion selectivity was controlled by the water content in THF. In a water rich system (H 2 O/THF = 99:1, v/v), probe 3 reacted mainly with sulfide ions, owing to the sulfide-selective cleavage of the NBD-OSO 2 Ar bond, to yield the pink-colored NBD-SH and fluorescent dansyl acid. However, in water deficient conditions (H 2 O/THF = 10:90, v/v), probe 3 exhibited both azide- and sulfide-selective reactions, due to the cleavage of the NBD-OSO 2 Ar bond, to yield either NBD-N 3 (for azide ions) or NBD-SH (for sulfide ions), and dansyl acid. Azide ions can be discriminatively signaled by selective excitation at the NBD-N 3 without interference from the sulfide signaling products. This selective signaling behavior is not affected by other anions that might be present in the environmental samples. To test the practical use of this probe, we created a test strip that could be used to detect sulfide and azide ions.
Abstract The synthesis of novel phosphoramidites is reported starting with the readily available 4-(1-pyrenyl)-butanol or 5-(dimethylamino)naphthalene-1-sulfonic acid chloride, respectively. Both amidites can be used on the DNA synthesizer to prepare 5′ - or internally labeled oligonucleotides without an acyl amide linkage to the fluorescent dye.
AbstractThis paper reports the synthesis of a new molecule, 5-(dimethylamino)naphthalene-1-sulfonic acid 2,3-bis(3-phenylureido)phenyl ester (1), as an optical probe for anions. The effect of the presence of various anions on the spectroscopic properties of 1 was examined using UV–vis absorption spectroscopy, fluorescence and 1H NMR titration experiments. Strong binding of 1 to carboxylate, oxalate, cyanide and dihydrogen phosphate anions resulted in an increase in the emission of 1 and changes in its 1H NMR chemical shifts. Binding constants of 1 to anions were also calculated based on the binding isotherms derived from the spectroscopic titrations.
The invention provides a synthesis and purification method of dansyl chloride. The method comprises the following steps of: (1) preparation of dansyl acid; and (2) preparation of dansyl chloride: putting dansyl acid into a dry 500mL single-opening bottle, adding phosphorus oxychloride, connecting the single-opening bottle with a condensation pipe and a drying pipe, controlling the temperature of oil bath at 90 DEG C for reaction overnight, stopping the reaction, cooling to room temperature and performing a quenching reaction with ice water, extracting with 3*500mL dichloromethane, drying the extract liquid with anhydrous sodium sulfate and performing spin drying to obtain orange solid, and recrystallizing n-hexane to obtain a pure product of dansyl chloride. The invention provides a brand new synthesis and purification method of dansyl chloride; the yield of the final product exceeds 70%, and the yield of the intermediate product exceeds 40%; the production method is scientific and reasonable; and elaborate theoretical and practical guide is provided for the subsequent expanded production.
