Well-defined diblock copolymers of polystyrene and aromatic polyether were synthesized by the combination of atom transfer radical polymerization (ATRP) and chain-growth condensation polymerization (CGCP) from an orthogonal initiator. A polystyrene macroinitiator was first synthesized by the ATRP of styrene in the presence of 4-fluorobenzenesulfonyl chloride (FBS−Cl) as an orthogonal initiator, then the terminal chlorine of the polystyrene was dehalogenated with Et3SiH/Pd(OAc)2. The CGCP of potassium 5-cyano-4-fluoro-2-propylphenolate (1) was then carried out with the polystyrene macroinitiator in sulfolane at 150 °C. However, not only polystyrene-b-aromatic polyether but also macrocycles of 1 were obtained, due to transetherification of the p-sulfonylphenyl ether linkage of the macroinitiator with 1. In contrast, the CGCP of 1 from another polystyrene macroinitiator bearing a keto group, which was prepared similarly by the ATRP of styrene with 4-(1-bromoethyl)-4‘-fluorobenzophenone (FBP−Br) as an orthogo...
Peptide surface modification of poly[(methyl methacrylate-co-hydroxyethyl methacrylate)-b-isobutylene-b-(methyl methacrylate-co-hydroxyethyl methacrylate)] P(MMA-co-HEMA)-b-PIB-b-P(MMA-co-HEMA) triblock copolymers with different HEMA/MMA ratios has been accomplished using an efficient synthetic procedure. The triblock copolymers were reacted with 4-fluorobenzenesulfonyl chloride (fosyl chloride) in pyridine to obtain the activated polymers [poly{(methyl methacrylate-co-fosyloxyethyl methacrylate)-b-isobutylene-b-(methyl methacrylate-co-fosyloxyethyl methacrylate)}] P(MMA-co-FEMA)-b-PIB-b-P(MMA-co-FEMA), with an activating efficiency of 80−90%. The resulting polymers were soluble in chloroform, and their solutions were used to coat thin uniform films with a predetermined thickness on smooth steel surfaces. The presence of reactive activating groups on the film surface was confirmed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), dye labeling, and confocal laser scanning microscopic studies. Activation of the tr...
Synthesis of 5-(p-fluorobenzenesulfonamido)-1, 3, 4-thiadiazole-2-sulfonamide 4 An amount of 1.80 g (10 mmol) of 5-amino-l,3,4-thiadiazole-2-sulfonamide was suspended in 20 mL of acetone and 50 mL of water. The mixture was magnetically stirred at 4 C for 10 minutes, then 10.5 mmol of 4-fluorobenzenesulfonyl chloride, dissolved in 10 mL acetone, and a solution obtained from 0.40 g of NaOH in 10 mL of water were added dropwise for 30 min, and stirring was continued for other 2 hours at 4 C. After evaporation of the acetone and neutralization of the reaction mixture with 5 % HC1 solution, the precipitated crystals were filtered and recrystallized from ethanol. Yield of 68%, as white crystals, m.p. 193-195 lit [27] [36] . Non-enzymatic hydrolysis rates were always subtracted from the observed rates. Duplicate experiments were done for each inhibitor concentration, and the values reported throughout the paper are the mean of such results. Stock solutions of inhibitor (1 mM) were prepared in distilled-deionized water with 10-20% (v/v) DMSO (which is not inhibitory at these concentrations [5] ) and dilutions up to 0.01 nM were done thereafter with distilled-deionized water. Inhibitor and enzyme solutions were preincubated together for 10 min at room temperature prior to assay, in order to allow for the formation of the E-I complex. The inhibition constant KI was determined as described by Pocker and Stone [36] . Enzyme concentrations were 3.3 nM for hCA II, 10 nM for hCA and 34 nM for bCA IV (this isozyme has a decreased esterase activity [37] and higher concentrations had to be used for the measurements).
4-Fluorobenzenesulfonyl chloride (fosyl chloride), due to the strong electron-withdrawing property of its fluoride atom, is found to be an excellent activating agent for the covalent attachment of biologicals to a variety of solid supports (e.g. functionalized polystyrene microspheres, Sepharose beads, or cellulose rods and hollow fibers). This reagent reacts rapidly with primary or secondary hydroxyl groups, at ambient temperature and pressure, to form 4-fluorobenzenesulfonate leaving groups. The activated solid support can be used immediately or preserved for several months without loss of activity by freeze-drying or by storage at 4 degrees C in aqueous solution at pH 5. Enzymes, antibodies, avidin, and other biologicals can be covalently attached to the activated solid phase with excellent retention of biological function. Potential therapeutic applications of the fosyl chloride chemistry for bioselective separation of human lymphocyte subsets from whole blood and tumor cells from bone marrow are presented.
Background ::: Ovarian cancer has been a salient public health concern in the world. It is necessary to develop novel antitumor drugs to treat ovarian cancer. ::: ::: ::: Purpose ::: This study investigated the synthesis, antiproliferation ability, antitumor mechanisms in vitro and in vivo of a novel benzenesulfonamide derivative. ::: ::: ::: Methods ::: The novel benzenesulfonamide-1,2,3-triazole hybrid 7c was synthesized from 4-fluorobenzenesulfonyl chloride, prop-2-yn-1-amine and 1-(azidomethyl)-3-phenoxybenzene. The structure of this benzenesulfonamide-1,2,3-triazole hybrid 7c was confirmed by 13C NMR, and 1H NMR. Compound 7c was evaluated for its antitumor effects in vitro and in vivo against ovarian cancer OVCAR-8 cells. ::: ::: ::: Results ::: We discovered that the benzenesulfonamide hybrid 7c potently inhibited cell proliferation against ovarian cancer. Especially, it inhibited cell proliferation with an IC50 value of 0.54μM against OVCAR-8 cells. It could inhibit migration and invasion against OVCAR-8 cells in a concentration-dependent and time-dependent manner. In addition, compound 7c affected the Wnt/β-catenin/GSK3β pathway against ovarian cancer OVCAR-8 cells. In vivo study suggested that compound 7c inhibited tumor growth remarkably without obvious toxicity. ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: In conclusion, benzenesulfonamide hybrid 7c could be a lead compound for further antitumor drug discovery to treat ovarian cancer.
