Numerous turf fungicides were tested under various conditions for possible deleterious effects upon the earthworm Eisenla foetida. Earthwormstreated by immersion for one minute in 0.1% solutions of 10 different fungicides died in significant numbers after benomyl and thiophanate methyl treatments. After 1% fungicide treatments, there was significant mortality frombenomyl, ethazole, Kromad,and thiophanate methyl fungicides. With2% fungicide solutions, significant numbers died after benomyl, cadmium succinate, ethazole, thiophanate methyl, and thiram treatments. Earthworms fed bermudagrass clippings treated with 10 different fungicides showed a significant decrease in longevity fromclippings treated withbenomyl, dinocap, ethazole, and thiophanate methyl. Earthwormsreared for 84days in soil treated with15 different turf fungicides showed a significant decrease in longevity fromsoil treated with aniyaline, benomyl, chlorothalonil, Duoson, ethazole, fenaminosulf, Kromad, mancozeb, PCNB,thiabendazole, thiophanate methyl, and thiram. Cadmiumsuccinate, dinocap, and RP 26019did not causea decrease in longevity. There was no reproduction by worms in soil treated withDuosan, PCNB,thiophanate methyl, and thiram, and only trace amounts in soil treated withchlorothalonil, ethazole, and Kromad. The toxicity of benomyl, thiabendazole, and thiophanate methyl to earthworms was confirmedin the present study, and additional fungicides used for turf disease control were also found to cause significant amounts of mortality.
Thermal decomposition of cadmium succinate dihydrate, CdC4H4O4·2H2O, was studied in dynamic helium and air atmospheres by means of simultaneous TG, DTA and MS analysis. It was found that dehydration of CdC4H4O4·2H2O takes place in the temperature range 80–165°C and at low heating rates formation of monohydrate was stated.
To evaluate the relative potential for survival of fungicide-cadmium succinate and benomyl, in an alternating criss-cross tolerant isolates of Sclerotinia homoeocarpa in pattern to exert a selection pressure on the extant fungus nature, equal populations of tolerant and sensitive isolates population. In the presence of selection pressure from were introduced into a disease-free, geographically isolated fungicide, the population was predominantly benomylturf plot area in the fall of 1973 and the populations were tolerant in areas where benomyl was applied, and allowed to increase naturally. Dollar spot leaf lesions were predominantly cadmium-tolerant where cadmium was sampled from infection centers monthly from the following applied. Six weeks after the fungicide applications were July through November, and 1,411 isolates obtained stopped, the benomyl-tolerant population rapidly decreased, subsequently were tested for fungicide tolerance on cadmium whereas the cadmium-tolerant population remained high. succinate-and benomyl-amended potato-dextrose agar. In These results indicate that even though benomyl-tolerant the absence of fungicides, benomyl-tolerant isolates dropped populations were low in the absence of benomyl, the to a small percentage of the total S. homoeocarpa application of benomyl resulted in a rapid resurgence of population, whereas sensitive and cadmium succinate benomyl-tolerant population. With cadmium-tolerant tolerant isolates increased to approximately equal high isolates, the use of cadmium fungicides resulted in an almost frequencies. In 1975, the plot again was sampled onaregular complete predominance of the cadmium-tolerant basis. In August 1975, when infection centers were very population, which persisted even when cadmium sprays were numerous, the area was sprayed with the fungicides, curtailed.
Open-framework cadmium succinates, [CN(3)H(6)](2)[Cd(2)(C(4)H(4)O(4))(Cl)(2)], I; [CN(3)H(6)](2)[Cd(C(4)H(4)O(4))(2)], II; Cd(2)(C(4)H(4)O(4))(2)(C(4)N(2)H(8))(H(2)O)(3), III; [C(4)N(2)H(12)][Cd(2)(C(4)H(4)O(4))(3)].4H(2)O, IV; Cd(C(4)H(4)O(4))(H(2)O)(2), V; and Cd(3)(C(4)H(4)O(4))(2)(OH)(2)], VI, of different dimensionalities have been synthesized by hydrothermal procedure by employing two different strategies, one involving the reaction of Cd salts with organic-amine succinates and the other involving the hydrothermal reaction of Cd salts with a mixture of succinic acid and the organic amine. While the latter procedure yields structures without any amine in them, the former gives rise to amine templated cadmium succinates with open architectures. By employing guanidinium succinate we have obtained I and II, and with piperazinium succinate we obtained III and IV. Of these I has a one-dimensional chain structure, IV has a layered structure, and II and III have three-dimensional architectures. The two cadmium succinates without incorporation of amine, V and VI, possess layered and three-dimensional structures, respectively. The three-dimensional structures II and III exhibit interpenetration similar to that in diamondoid and alpha-polonium type structures, respectively.
By carrying out a metathetic reaction between sodium succinate and CdCl 2 or CdBr 2 in an n-butanol-water mixture, two novel open-framework cadmium succinates, [Na 3 Cd 5 (C 4 H 4 O 4 ) 6 Cl], I, and [Na 3 Cd 5 (C 4 H 4 O 4 ) 6 Br], II, have been isolated. Both of these compounds possess interpenetrating three-dimensional open-framework structures wherein tetrahedral Cl(Br)Cd 4 O 24 clusters are connected by succinate linkages. The tetrahedral cluster itself is formed of four CdO 6 octahedra surrounding a halogen atom. The three-dimensional cadmium succinate framework incorporates sodium ions. Four sodiums surround the second nearest neighbor halogen atom, forming a Na 4 Cl(Br) tetrahedron.
