Combinations of various heat treatments with individual fruit sealing, packaging in polyethylene liners or waxing were tested as means to control pathological and physiological spoilage of ‘Oroblanco’ fruit (Citrus grandis L.×C. paradisi Macf.). The following heat treatments were used: curing at 36°C for 72 h, hot water dip at 52°C for 2 min or ‘hot drench brushing’ at 52, 56 or 60°C for 10 s. The standard packinghouse treatment included waxing with addition of thiabendazole (TBZ) and 2,4-d isopropyl ester. The fruit was stored for 2 weeks at 1°C (simulated low-temperature quarantine treatment), followed by 12–13 weeks at 11°C (simulated sea transportation to Japan) and 1 additional week at 20°C (simulated retail shelf-life period). The lowest weight loss and the highest firmness were observed with individually sealed fruit. Polyethylene liners were usually more efficient for weight loss control than waxing. However, the liner packaging enhanced the risk of postharvest disease development, if not accompanied by appropriate decay-controlling measures. Applying TBZ, hot water dip or curing controlled the development of postharvest pathogens, especially that of Penicillium molds. In another trial, both hot drench brushing at 56 or 60°C and hot water dip reduced decay incidence. Hot drench brushing at 60°C and hot water dip slowed fruit softening and reduced buttons abscission. In addition, the hot drench brushing at 60°C significantly delayed the loss of ‘Oroblanco’ green rind color, especially at the stylar and stem ends of the fruit. The hot dip at 52°C inhibited yellowing only when combined with individual seal-packaging.
Abstract The effect of barban at 0·35 kg a.i./ha alone or in mixture with eight surfactants at 0·5% (v/v), and two organic salts at 0·5% (v/w) on wild oat ( Avena fatua L.) fresh weight was investigated in the glasshouse. Barban with Atplus 411F and with Renex-36 reduced wild-oat fresh weight by 68–77% and 69–86%, respectively, compared with the untreated control, whereas barban alone reduced fresh weight by 36–48%. Barban with added ammonium sulphate also reduced fresh weight by 71%. The three-way mixture (barban+surfactant+ammonium sulphate) did not further reduce fresh weight. Mixtures of Atplus 411F and Renex-36 added in different proportions to barban reduced fresh weight by amounts similar to individual combinations of each surfactant and barban. The increased activity of barban when applied with Renex-36 counteracted the antagonistic effect of 2,4-D isopropyl ester or MCPA iso-octyl ester on wild-oat fresh-weight reduction, compared with barban plus 2,4-D or MCPA without surfactant. Simulated rainfall did not decrease wild-oat fresh-weight reduction with the barban/Renex-36 mixture. Under field conditions, barban plus Atplus 411F and ammonium sulphate gave better wild-oat control than barban alone and increased wheat-grain yield. This treatment also did not reduce wheat tolerance. More [ 14 C]-barban was absorbed by wild oat when [ 14 C]-barban was mixed with Atplus 411F or Renex-36 than when applied alone. The increased adsorption may provide some explanations for the improved wild-oat control with barban/adjuvant mixture.
Two analytical methods are presented for the determination of 2,4-D in oranges. The screening procedure uses a commercial ELISA kit, designed for the determination of 2,4-D in water. Good semi-quantitative screening data were obtained provided that the standard solutions used to construct the calibration curve were prepared in blank orange extract. The limited quantification range of the kit was due to the narrow linear range and differences in response to 2,4-D when present as the free acid and as various esters. A GC-MS confirmatory technique involved extraction of 2,4-D from oranges by homogenisation with methanol, filtration and esterification/transesterification with boron trifluoride-methanol. Recoveries for three spiking levels (0.2, 1.0 and 2.0 mg kg -1 ) for 2,4-D and 2,4-D isopropyl ester were within the range 75-120%. In a small survey of retail oranges, 10 samples were screened using the ELISA kit and four were found to have >0.2 mg 2,4-D kg -1 . All four residues were confirmed by GC-MS. The ELISA procedure involves approximately half the staff effort of the GC-MS procedure.
Abstract 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) is carcinogenic in male and female rats and probably also in mice. Male and female rats ingesting 2,4-D developed increased incidences of malignant neoplasms. Lymphosarcomas were increased in rats of both sexes, and neoplasms of the mammary gland in female rats. Male rats also had carcinomass of the endocrine organs. 2,4-D isooctyl ester was carcinogenic for the lymphoreticular system in female mice. 2,4-D and 2,4-dichlorophenol also were promoters of neoplasms of the skin in mice. Male mice given 2,4-D isopropyl ester developed an increased incidence of neoplasms of the lung. 2,4-D also is mutagenic and teratogenic in animals and causes poisoning in animals and human beings.
Abstract Further work with the herbicide C 19490 (S-(2-methyl-1-piperidyl-carbonylmethyl)-O,O-di-N-propyl dithiophosphate) in the mixture C 288 with the triazine C 18898 in the ratio 4:1, and with 2,4-D isopropyl ester (2,4-D IPE) in the ratios 2:1 and 3:2 have been completed. New toxicological data show that the risk of toxicity hazards to the user or to other mammals by contamination is low. Residue work shows that C 19490 leaves very low or undetectable residues in rice grain and soil, though C 18898 was detected in both, but never at more than 0.28 ppm in soil or more than 0.04 ppm in grain. There was no interaction between either C 19490 or C 288 and commonly used insecticides. Uptake of the products by plants was shown to be preferentially through emerging shoots, and less through roots. Field trials resulted in recommendations for around 2 kg C 288 total a.i./ha in Japan, optimum timing depending on the prevailing temperature. Successful control was achieved in Taiwan with C 288 at 1 kg a.i./ha in ...
