The known azastilbene (E)-1,2-di(quinolin-3-yl)ethane (2a) and the novel azoniastilbene derivatives (E)-2-(2-(naphthalen-2-yl)vinyl)quinolizinium (2b) and (E)-3,3′-(ethane-1,2-diyl)bis(1-methylquinolinin-1-ium) (2c) were synthesized. Their interactions with duplex and quadruplex DNA (G4-DNA) were studied by photometric, fluorimetric, polarimetric and flow-LD analysis, and by thermal DNA denaturation studies, as well as by 1H-NMR spectroscopy. The main goal of this study was a comparison of these conformationally flexible compounds with the known G4-DNA-binding diazoniadibenzo[b,k]chrysenes, that have a comparable π-system extent, but a rigid structure. We have observed that the aza- and azoniastilbene derivatives 2a–c, i.e. compounds with almost the same spatial dimensions and steric demand, bind to DNA with an affinity and selectivity that depends significantly on the number of positive charges. Whereas the charge neutral derivative 2a binds unspecifically to the DNA backbone of duplex DNA, the ionic compounds 2b and 2c are typical DNA intercalators. Notably, the bis-quinolinium derivative 2c binds to G4-DNA with moderate affinity (Kb = 4.8 × 105 M−1) and also stabilizes the G4-DNA towards thermal denaturation (ΔTm = 11 °C at ligand–DNA ratio = 5.0). Strikingly, the corresponding rigid counterpart, 4a,12a-diazonia-8,16-dimethyldibenzo[b,k]chrysene, stabilizes the G4-DNA to an even greater extent under identical conditions (ΔTm = 27 °C). These results indicate that the increased flexibility of a G4-DNA ligand does not necessarily lead to stronger interactions with the G4-DNA as compared with rigid ligands that have essentially the same size and π system extent.
The products from a Friedel–Crafts reaction of 1,5-dihydroxynaphthalene with phthalic anhydride have been investigated. The reaction of 1,5-dimethoxynaphthalene with phthalic anhydride and an excess of aluminium chloride gives o-(4,8-dihydroxy-1-naphthoyl)benzoic acid and the partially demethylated compound, o-(8-hydroxy-4-methoxy-1-naphthoyl)benzoic acid, while with an excess of phthalic anhydride the main products are the dimethoxy-acid and 4,8-bis-(2-carboxybenzoyl)-1,5-dimethoxynaphthalene. The structure of the latter was confirmed by conversion into dibenzo[b,k]chrysene.
Polycyclic azoniahetarenes were employed to determine the effect of the structure of unsubstituted polyaromatic ligands on their quadruplex-DNA binding properties. The interactions of three isomeric diazoniadibenzo[b,k]chrysenes (4 a-c), diazoniapentaphene (5), diazoniaanthra[1,2-a]anthracene (6), and tetraazoniapentapheno[6,7-h]pentaphene (3) with quadruplex DNA were examined by DNA melting studies (FRET melting) and fluorimetric titrations. In general, penta- and hexacyclic azoniahetarenes bind to quadruplex DNA (K(b) ≈10(6) M(-1)) even in the absence of additional functional side chains. The binding modes of 4 a-c and 3 were studied in more detail by ligand displacement experiments, isothermal titration calorimetry, and CD and NMR spectroscopy. All experimental data indicate that terminal π stacking of the diazoniachrysenes to the quadruplex is the major binding mode; however, because of different electron distributions of the π systems of each isomer, these ligands align differently in the binding site to achieve ideal binding interactions. It is proposed that tetraazonia ligand 3 binds to the quadruplex by terminal stacking with a small portion of its π system, whereas a significant part of the bulky ligand most likely points outside the quadruplex structure, and is thus partially placed in the grooves. Notably, 3 and the known tetracationic porphyrin TMPyP4 exhibit almost the same binding properties towards quadruplex DNA, with 3 being more selective for quadruplex than for duplex DNA. Overall, studies on azonia-type hetarenes enable understanding of some parameters that govern the quadruplex-binding properties of parent ligand systems. Since unsubstituted ligands were employed in this study, complementary and cooperative effects of additional substituents, which may interfere with the ligand properties, were eliminated.
New synthetic methodology of fused aromatic hydrocarbons with nitrogen heterocyclic of 4,5,12,13-Tetraaza-dibenzo[b,k]chrysene( 4 ) were designed and synthesized by chemical methods. Compound 4 fully characterized by 1 H NMR, 13 C NMR, EI-mass spectral, elemental and single crystal X-ray analysis. Molecules of 4 are completely planar and form face-to-face π-stacking. Shortest distances between fused rings of π- π interactions are 3.346 A. Compound (4) is a potential candidate for high mobility single crystal organic field effect transistors (OFET’s).
New synthetic methodology of fused aromatic hydrocarbons with nitrogen heterocyclic of 4,5,12,13-Tetraaza-dibenzo[b,k]chrysene(4) were designed and synthesized by chemical methods. Compound 4 fully characterized by 1 H NMR, 13 C NMR, EI-mass spectral, elemental and single crystal X-ray analysis. Molecules of 4 are completely planar and form face-to-face π-stacking. Shortest distances between fused rings of π-π interactions are 3.346 Å. Compound (4) is a potential candidate for high mobility single crystal organic field effect transistors (OFET's).
In this paper we report the synthesis and crystal structure of new poly nuclear heterocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon of 4,5,12,13-Tetraaza-dibenzo[b,k]chrysene(4), as a potential candidate for single crystal field effect transistors and high mobility in OFETs can be obtained because of conjugated molecules have strong interactions with neighboring molecules and exhibits the face-to-face π-stacking molecular packing.
