Rate constants and products of solvolyses of p-methoxybenzyl chloride 1, chlorodiphenylmethane 2(Y = Z = H), chloro(4-chlorophenyl)phenylmethane 2(Y = H, Z = Cl) and chlorobis(4-chlorophenyl)methane 2(Y = Z = Cl) are reported in ethanol– and methanol–water mixtures at 25 °C. Product selectivities (S), defined by: S=[ether product][water]/[alcohol product][alcohol solvent] are related to four rate constants for reactions involving one molecule of solvent as nucleophile and another molecule of solvent as general base catalyst (e.g. kwa involves water as nucleophile and alcohol as general base, and kww, kaw and kaa are defined similarly). A linear relationship between 1/S and molar ratios of solvent 1/S=(kwa/kaw)([alcohol solvent]/[water])+kww/kaw is derived theoretically and validated experimentally for solvolyses of the above substrates from water up to 70% alcohol–water—in this range of solvents, the contribution from kaa can be neglected. For solvolyses of p-methoxybenzyl chloride, S is independent of pH between pH 2 and 12, S decreases when acetone is added but increases if acetonitrile is added and for 90% ethanol–water S increases with added LiCl and LiClO4 and increases further if acetonitrile is also present.
Resting cells of bacteria grown in the presence of diphenylmethane oxidized substituted analogs such as 4-hydroxydiphenylmethane, bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)methane, bis(4-chlorophenyl)methane (DDM), benzhydrol, and 4,4'-dichlorobenzhydrol. Resting cells of bacteria grown with benzhydrol as the sole carbon source oxidized substituted benzhydrols such as 4-chlorobenzhydrol, 4,4'-dichlorobenzhydrol, and other metabolites of 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT), such as DDM and bis(4-chlorophenyl)acetic acid. Bacteria and fungi converted 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane to 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethylene, 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane, DDM, 4,4'-dichlorobenzhydrol, and 4,4'-dichlorobenzophenone. Aspergillus conicus converted 55% of bis(4-chlorophenyl)acetic acid to unidentified or unextractable water-soluble products. Aspergillus niger and Penicillium brefeldianum converted 12.4 and 24.6%, respectively, of 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane to water-soluble and unidentified products. 4-Chlorophenylacetic acid, a product of ring cleavage, was formed from DDM by a false smut fungus of rice. A. niger converted 4,4'-dichlorobenzophenone to 4-chlorobenzophenone and a methylated 4-chlorobenzophenone.
The crystal structures of five l,l,l-trichloro-2, 2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT) analogues are reported. They are l,l,l-trichloro-2, 2-bis(phenyl)ethane, bis(4-chlorophenyl)methane, 9-(trichloromethyl)-9, 10-dihydroanthracene, l-chloro-2, 2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethene, and l,l,l-trichloro-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-(2, 4-dichlorophenyl)ethane. Holan's DDT mode of action theory is analyzed in terms of available crystallographic data.
A novel laboratory-made sol-gel calix[4]arene/hydroxy-terminated silicone oil coated fiber has been applied for headspace solid-phase microextraction (HS-SPME) combined with gas chromatography (GC) with electron capture detection (ECD) to determine 12 organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) and their metabolites in radish sample. The analytes in the study consisted of alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-hexachlorocyclohexane (BHC), 1,1,1-trichloro-2-(2-chlorophenyl)-2-(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (o,p'-DDT), 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (p,p'-DDT), 2,4-dichlorobenzophenone (o,p'-DBP), 4,4-dichlorobenzophenone (p,p'-DBP), 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethylene (p,p'-DDE), bis(4-chlorophenyl)methane (p,p'-DDM), 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (p,p'-DDD) and endrin. The following parameters were adjusted to optimize HS-SPME in order to obtain the maximum sensitivity: extraction temperature, extraction time, the addition of salt, desorption temperature and time. Especially, the effect of the complex radish matrix on quantitative extraction of pesticides was discussed in detail. Detection limits of the developed method for radish matrices were below 174ng/kg for all pesticides. Relative standard deviations for quintuplicate analyses of radish samples fortified each analytes were not higher than 13.1%. The results demonstrate the suitability of the HS-SPME/GC-ECD approach for the analysis of multi-residue OCPs and metabolites in radish.
Although 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT) is a persistent environmental pollutant, it does appear to undergo slow degradation in the environment (1, 15, 18, 23) . Studies by Wedemeyer (34-36) and by Alexander and co-workers (12-14, 26, 27, 29, 30) have demonstrated that extensive biodegradation of DDT and DDT metabolites occurs in some bacteria. These studies have led to the elucidation of a pathway for DDT biodegradation (Fig. 1) . Although other reactions, most notably conversion of DDT to 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethene (DDE) may occur during its biodegradation, the major bacterial pathway appears to involve an initial reductive dechlorination of the trichloromethyl group to form 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDD), which then undergoes further dechlorination, oxidation, and decarboxylation to form bis(4-chlorophenyl)methane (DDM). DDM may then undergo cleavage of one of the aromatic rings to form pchlorophenylacetic acid, which may also undergo ring cleavage. The products of ring cleavage reactions are then further degraded to Krebs cycle intermediates and, ultimately, oxidized to carbon dioxide to complete the mineralization process. Alternatively, DDM may be converted to DBH (4,4'-dichlorobenzhydrol) or DBP (4,4'-dichlorobenzophenone), DBH also may undergo ring cleavage, or both DBH and DBP may undergo reductive dechlorination of the aromatic ring to form the corresponding nonchlorinated analogs, which then, presumably, readily undergo aromatic ring cleavage and further degradation.
