The human retinoic acid receptor (hRAR) belongs to the family of nuclear receptors that regulate transcription in a ligand-dependent way. The isotypes RARalpha,beta and gamma are distinct pharmacological targets for retinoids that are involved in the treatment of various skin diseases and cancers, in particular breast cancer and acute promyelocytic leukemia. Therefore, synthetic retinoids have been developed aiming at isotype selectivity and reduced side-effects. We report the crystal structures of three complexes of the hRARgamma ligand-binding domain (LBD) bound to agonist retinoids that possess selectivity either for RARgamma (BMS184394) or for RARbeta/gamma (CD564), or that are potent for all RAR-isotypes (panagonist BMS181156). The high resolution data (1.3-1. 5 A) provide a description at the atomic level of the ligand pocket revealing the molecular determinants for the different degrees of ligand selectivity. The comparison of the complexes of the chemically closely related retinoids BMS184394 and CD564 shows that the side-chain of Met272 adopts different conformations depending on the presence of a hydrogen bond between its sulfur atom and the ligand. This accounts for their different isotype selectivity. On the other hand, the difference between the pan- and the RARbeta, gamma-selective agonist is probably due to a steric discrimination at the level of the 2-naphthoic acid moiety of CD564. Based on this study, we propose a model for a complex with the RARgamma-specific agonist CD666 that shows the possible applications for structure-based drug design of RAR isotype-selective retinoids.
Biological effects of retinoic acid (RA) are mediated through its binding to three closely related nuclear receptors (RAR alpha, RAR beta, and RAR gamma) belonging to the steroid-thyroid nuclear receptor family. RARs are able to modulate the transcription of specific genes by binding to responsive elements located in the promoter-enhancer region of these genes. As demonstrated by in situ hybridization, the distribution of each RAR type in the developing embryo, as well as in the adult, is not uniform. In this context, synthetic retinoids that would behave as selective ligands would be invaluable for studying the respective roles of each RAR type in cultured cells, whole animals, and embryos. Moreover, from a pharmacological point of view, such selective compounds may possess a higher therapeutic index and a lower teratogenic risk, because they might affect specific tissues and spare some others. As an approach to this problem, we have set up two complementary assays, (i) an in vitro binding assay to determine the Kd values of retinoids for RAR alpha, RAR beta, and RAR gamma and (ii) a functional assay in cultured cells to evaluate the potential of retinoids to transactivate, through their binding to one type of RAR, a reporter gene. The binding assay uses nuclear extracts of COS-7 cells transfected with vectors expressing RAR alpha, RAR beta, or RAR gamma. The functional assay is a measure of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) activity in HeLa cells co-transfected with the expression vectors used in the binding assay and the reporter gene TRE-tk-CAT. Selective agonists for RAR alpha (Am80 and Am580) and RAR beta-RAR gamma (CD495 and CD564) were identified. However, compounds with pure RAR beta or RAR gamma selectivity have not yet been identified.
On cut section, a 2.2-cm-sized endobronchial polypoid mass was identified ( Figure 2B ). The yellow-tan, solid mass was relatively well-defined, but focal interruption of bronchial cartilage was found. Microscopically, central area of the mass was composed of variable sized solid lobules of tumor cells. Tumor cells were evenly distributed in solid lobules, and central necrosis was found in the lobules. Nuclei of tumor cells showed moderate atypia and cytoplasm was eosinophilic and partly granular ( Figure 2C ). At the periphery, transition from small infiltrating duct-like structures to solid lobules were identified ( Figure 2D ). These duct-like structures resembled bronchial submucosal glands but showed nuclear atypia and infiltrative growth into peribronchial soft tissue, which were typical features of EMC. Due to the solid lobular area, differential diagnoses included collision tumor with EMC component such as metastatic lobular breast cancer, carcinoid, lymphoma, and pulmonary adenocarcinoma with solid pattern. To make final diagnosis, immunohistochemical stainings for thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF-1; 1:100, 8G7G3/1, Dako, Carpinteria, CA, USA), p63 (1:200, 4A4, Biocare Medical, Concord, CA, USA), cytokeratin (CK; 1:500, AE1/AE3, Dako), chromogranin A (1:400, DAK-A3, Dako), CD56 (1:200, CD564, Novocastra, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK), smooth muscle actin (SMA; 1:1,000, 1A4, Dako), and Ki-67 (1:300, MIB1, Dako) were performed. Tumor cells were positive for CK (AE1/ AE3) and SMA, whereas negative for remaining TTF-1, p63, chromogranin A, and CD56. In solid area, CK (AE1/AE3) was positive in inner center of the lobules and SMA was positive in the outer layer of the lobules. Peripheral duct-like structures also showed CK (AE1/AE3) positive cells in inner layer, and SMA positive cells in outer layer ( Figure 2E , F). S-100 protein highlighted myoepithelial component of the peripheral ductlike structure, whereas only focal area of positivity was found in the solid lobules ( Figure 2G ). Ki-67 revealed high proliferative index in outer area of solid lobules, up to 40%. However, the center of solid lobules and adjacent duct-like structure showed less than 1% of proliferative index ( Figure 2H ). Finally, diagnosis of poorly differentiated EMC was rendered. Since there were metastases in right hilar and subcarinal lymph nodes, patient underwent adjuvant chemotherapy.
