In producing (+/-)-2-(6-methoxy-2-naphthyl)propionic acid or precursor thereof from 2-bromo-6-methoxynaphthalene, use is made of 2-bromo-6-methoxynaphthalene formed by (a) methylating 6-bromo-2-naphthol with methyl chloride in a solvent comprising one or more compounds, RZ, where R is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group, and Z is -OH or -CN provided that if Z is -CN, R is alkyl, and in the presence of a strong base; and (b) recovering and purifying 2-bromo-6-methoxynaphthalene so formed. Preferably, the 6-bromo-2-naphthol is formed by (1) reacting 1,6-dibromo-2-naphthol with hydrogen, in a solvent comprising (a) organic halide in which the halogen has an atomic number of 35 or less or (b) a mixture of water and such organic halide, and in the presence of catalytically effective amounts of (i) a tungsten carbide-based catalyst, and (ii) phase transfer catalyst; and (2) separating 6-bromo-2-naphthol from the organic halide solvent so that the 6-bromo-2-naphthol is substantially free of halogen-containing impurities before use in the above methylation reaction. This technology makes possible reductions in quantities of co-products formed, eliminates need for use of excess iron and/or dimethyl sulfate as reaction components, and makes possible improvements in plant operating efficiency. Precursors of (+/-)-2-(6-methoxy-2-naphthyl)propionic acid formed from such 2-bromo-6-methoxynaphthalene are Grignard reagent of 2-bromo-6-methoxynaphthalene, bis(6-methoxy-2-naphthyl)zinc, 6-methoxy-2-naphthylzinc halide, 6-methoxy-2-naphthyllithium, 6-methoxy-2-naphthylcopper(I), bis(6-methoxy-2-naphthyl)cadmium, 6-methoxy-2-naphthylcadmium halide, and 6-methoxy-2-vinylnaphthalene.
Abstract 2-(6-Methoxy-2-naphthyl)propionic acid ( 4 ), dl-naproxen, was conveniently prepared by the regioselective reaction of alkyl 2-chloro-2-alkylthio-propionate ( 2 ) and 2-methoxynaphthalene ( 1 ) in good yield. This Friedel-Crafts reaction was found to be applicable to the other electron-rich aromatics.
The invention relates to an industrial synthesis technique of DL-naproxen, which uses 2-propinonyl-6-methoxynaphthalene is reacted with neopentyl glycol, ethylene alcohol, 1, 3-methyl glycol or 1, 2-methyl glycol via ketol reaction to give ketone I, then processes a-bromo-reaction which is subjected to rearrangement to open ring, at last processes alkali hydrolytic reaction and acidification reaction to obtain DL-naproxen. The industrial synthesis technique of DL-naproxen has simple operation, high yield and low cost, which is fit for commercial production.
Propionyl-6-methoxynaphthalene (2) was treated with iodine and cuprous oxide in the presence of triethyl orthoformate to rearrange to ethyl 2-(6-methoxy-2-naphthyl) propionate (3). Subsequent hydrolysis of 3 afforded dl-naproxen in 82.6% overall yield.
2-Propionyl-6-methoxy naphthalene(3) was treated with iodinein the presence of triethyl orthoformate to rearrange to 4. Subsequent hydrolysisof 4 afforded dl-naproxen in 57% overall yield based on 2-methoxynaphthalene(2).
A new kind of β-CD/SiO2 chiral stationary phase was synthesized bonded on the silica gel and characterized by IR spectrometry.It was used as chiral stationary phase of thin-layer chromatography to separate racemic naproxen.The separation of DL-naproxen by several different mobile phase was studied,and the best volume ratio of ethyl acetate to chloroform was 1∶4.The results showed that it had an excellent separate capability and the separate faction of DL-naproxen was up to 1.45.
(+/-)-2-(6-Methoxy-2-naphthyl)propionic acid methyl ester (methyl ester of Naproxen), the precursor of therapeutically important nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) was enantioselectively hydrolysed using as biocatalyst Candida rugosa lipase. In research aimed at studying the structure-activity relationship (SAR), NMR spectroscopy methods were employed to identify which Naproxen molecular moiety was essential to the substrate-enzyme interaction. The experimental results, in agreement with previous computer modelling studies and reported kinetic data, gave new information on the enzyme-substrate complex formation in solution.
