We investigated the effects of five allyl esters, two aromatic (allyl cinnamate and allyl 2-furoate) and three aliphatic (allyl hexanoate, allyl heptanoate, and allyl octanoate) in established insect cell lines derived from different species and tissues. We studied embryonic cells of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster (S2) (Diptera) and the beet armyworm Spodoptera exigua (Se4) (Lepidoptera), fat body cells of the Colorado potato beetle Leptinotarsa decemlineata (CPB) (Coleoptera), ovarian cells of the silkmoth Bombyx mori (Bm5), and midgut cells of the spruce budworm Choristoneura fumiferana (CF203) (Lepidoptera). Cytotoxicity was determined with use of MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide] and trypan blue. In addition, we tested the entomotoxic action of allyl cinnamate against the cotton leafworm Spodoptera littoralis .The median (50%) cytotoxic concentrations (EC₅₀s) of the five allyl esters in the MTT bioassays ranged between 0.25 and 27 mM with significant differences among allyl esters (P = 0.0012), cell lines (P < 0.0001), and the allyl ester-cell line interaction (P < 0.0001). Allyl cinnamate was the most active product, and CF203 the most sensitive cell line. In the trypan blue bioassays, cytotoxicity was produced rapidly and followed the same trend observed in the MTT bioassay. In first instars of S. littoralis, allyl cinnamate killed all larvae at 0.25% in the diet after 1 day, while this happened in third instars after 5 days. The LC₅₀ in first instars was 0.08%. In addition, larval weight gain was reduced (P < 0.05) after 1 day of feeding on diet with 0.05%. In conclusion, the data provide evidence of the significant but differential cytotoxicity among allyl esters in insect cells of different species and tissues. Midgut cells show high sensitivity, indicating the insect midgut as a primary target tissue. Allyl cinnamate caused rapid toxic effects in S. littoralis larvae at low concentrations, suggesting further potential for use in pest control.
Abstract In this project, three allyl esters from middle-chain fatty acids (allyl octanoate, allyl heptanoate and allyl hexanoate) and two from aromatic acids (allyl cinnamate and allyl 2-furoate) were investigated against two differential pests. Lethal and sublethal repellent effects by topical and ingestion exposure were tested against the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris) and the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum (Herbst) as these represent two insect pest orders of Hemiptera and Coleoptera each with a specific feeding behavior using piercing–sucking and biting–chewing mouthparts, respectively. Significant mortalities against aphid nymphs were produced when fed via diet containing allyl cinnamate, allyl 2-furoate and allyl heptanoate at 0.1 mg mL−1, and in dose–response tests allyl cinnamate was the most active with an LC50 of 0.03 (0.02–0.05) mg mL−1. Although topical application on aphids was only effective at doses of 0.1 mg aphid−1 for allyl cinnamte, beetles of T. castaneum adults were sensitive to all allyl esters assessed with LC50's ranging between 0.1 and 0.2 mg insect−1. In binary choice bioassays, none of the allyl esters produced repellent effects on A. pisum aphids, neither by ingestion (0.1 mg mL−1 in the diet) nor by contact (100 μg cm−2 on filter paper). In contrast, all allyl esters, except allyl hexanoate, showed high to moderate repellence effects on T. castaneum beetles at 10 μg cm−2. Interestingly, the repellent activity of allyl cinnamate was equal to the commercial insect repellent N,N-diethyl-m-toluamide (DEET). The data obtained suggest a possible role of allyl esters in insect pest control.
SAR model development should be a continuous process involving formulation then experimental testing of the model, incorporation of test results into the database, then refinement of the model using the expanded database. The larger database affords greater confidence in its ability to predict the biological response. This iterative procedure was employed with a recently developed structure-activity relationship (SAR) model of human skin irritation. Based on a “leave-one-out” cross validation, the mean sensitivity of the initial model was 0.89, the mean specificity was 0.74. A clinical validation study was conducted to assess the ability of the model to predict human skin irritation by esters commonly used as fragrance ingredients. Esters that were found to cause irritation in rabbits, and that were within the predictive space of the SAR model, were selected for human testing using the patch test procedure. Of the 34 rabbit irritants selected, 16 were predicted by the model to be positive and 18 were predicted to be negative. Patch testing yielded two positive esters, allyl heptanoate and allyl cyclohexanepropionate. These test results were incorporated into the database to refine the SAR model. Best subsets regression and linear discriminant analysis were used to generate 10 submodels consisting of 10 irritants and 50 non-irritants randomly selected from the new database. Physicochemical parameters associated with irritant esters, when compared with non-irritant esters, differed somewhat from those identified in the original model. Irritant esters had lower solubility parameter and water solubility, higher Hansen dispersion and Hansen hydrogen bonding, and lower sum of partial positive charges, when compared with non-irritant esters. The sensitivity of the new model is 0.69 and specificity is 0.67. The results of this study indicate that SAR models based on limited data may not accurately predict the activity of unknown chemicals even though the computationally-derived sensitivity and specificity of the models are high. This finding emphasizes the need for experimental validation of models and their refinement as new data become available.
