To determine whether the practice of nebulizing flunisolide solution (Nasalide) is detrimental in children with asthma, we administered Nasalide solution to 10 asthmatic children (age 12.9 ± 2.9 years) in a double-blind randomized fashion. Three separate solutions (placebo: 2.5 ml normal saline; 1.0 ml Nasalide + 1.5 ml normal saline; 2.0 ml Nasalide + 0.5 ml normal saline) were administered on three successive week-ends following a 24-h washout period, and pulmonary function studies (FEV1, FEF25-75, PEFR) were followed for 1 h postinhalation. In addition, twice-daily peak flow determinations and symptom diaries were recorded during each week. No bronchospasm was seen during the study period following the inhalation challenge with Nasalide, nor was there exacerbation of asthma symptoms during the week. We conclude that single-dose inhalation of Nasalide does not cause bronchospasm in asthmatic children. Studies of long-term effects of inhaled Nasalide, including safety, efficacy, and dose—response curves ...
Objective: To establish the efficacy of topical corticosteroid nasal spray treatment of severe olfactory loss associated with severe nasal and sinus disease. Design: Efficacy before and after open-label trial of topical corticosteroid nasal spray used exclusively in the headdown-forward position. Setting: Taste and smell clinic of a university teaching hospital and research facility. Patients: Taste and smell clinic patients with anosmia or severe hyposmia associated with paranasal sinus disease and nasal polyposis including 39 of 45 patients recruited from 1988 to 1994 who completed the topical corticosteroid treatment course and returned for subsequent testing. Intervention: At least 8 weeks of treatment with flunisolide (Nasalide), 2 sprays in each nostril twice a day, with concurrent antibiotic treatment of any bacterial infection. Main Outcome Measures: Subjective olfactory symptoms, objective olfactory function tests, and otolaryngological evaluation (including endoscopic examination). Results: Olfactory scores significantly improved following treatment ( P P Conclusion: Topical corticosteroid nasal spray administered in a head-down-forward position is an effective treatment of severe olfactory loss associated with severe nasal and sinus disease. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1997;123:367-372
This study evaluated the clinical efficacy of nebulized flunisolide nasal solution (Nasalide) in young children with moderately severe asthma. Twenty-two asthmatic children, ages 12-72 months, completed this double-blind placebo-controlled study. After a 6-week observation period, 18 patients were paired according to asthma severity. One child from each pair was randomized to flunisolide, the other to placebo; 4 patients were independently randomized. Placebo or drug was then administered for 6 weeks. Throughout the study, symptoms, drug usage, and analog scales reflecting asthma severity and family disruption were recorded in a diary. Multiple regression analysis was used to compare the flunisolide and placebo groups in regard to the amount of improvement demonstrated from the observation to the active periods of the study. Analog scores of asthma severity and family disruption, albuterol aerosol use, and systemic corticosteroid use fell roughly 40% from baseline in the flunisolide group. This improvement was significant compared to the placebo group. We conclude that 1 ml (250 microg) of nebulized flunisolide nasal spray solution, administered three times daily, reduced the severity of asthma symptoms, and the need for both albuterol aerosol and systemic corticosteroid therapy in young children with moderately severe asthma during a 6-week trial. Longer term studies are warranted.
AbstractFlunisolide is a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid with significant ant -inflammatory and anti-allergic activities. Flunisolide nasal solution (Nasalide®) is delivered by a unique pump-activated, non-propellant, metered-dose device. A previous paper (1) reported droplet size characterization of the nasal spray by a cascade impactor. This report describes the remaining physical characterizations, namely dose delivery and spray pattern, of this metered-dose delivery system as well as the suitability of the system for a therapeutic corticosteroid nasal solution.Actuation of flunisolide nasal spray units by 10 subjects over time demonstrated good constancy of dose delivery for up to 24 days of use. The average dose delivery was 0.737 ± 0.040 gm/day (grand mean ± s.d.).Actuation of similar units by 17 subjects over time showed good constancy of spray pattern, which was defined as the long and short diameters of the impaction pattern of the spray on a TLC plate, for the entire lifetime of the unit.
In general, the development of some pharmaceutical formulations and cosmetics can be ceased in a later phase in the development when they cause stinging, itching and/or burning sensations during clinical studies. These discomforts are only seen in this stage since neither animal tests nor in vitro models were able to detect these effects. This was the case for the Nasalide® nasal spray, containing the topical intranasal corticosteroid flunisolide. Trangsrud et al. (2002) noted that Nasalide® was associated with more reports of nasal stinging and burning. According to early reports of tolerability, up to 45% of patients noted nasal burning with Nasalide® nasal spray (Dura Pharmaceuticals Inc., 2000; Mabry, 1995) . Some of these problems were due to the formulation. In the 1980s the drug was reformulated to contain less propylene glycol (Nasarel®) which resulted in a significantly lower frequency of nasal burning and stinging as well as throat irritation (Greenbaum et al., 1988; Meltzer et al., 1990 ).
