Summary: Fifteen independent menaquinone biosynthesis mutants (men) of Escherichia coli K12, selected for their inability to use fumarate as terminal electron acceptor, were investigated. Two nutritionally distinct groups were detected. The major group (13 mutants) responded to 1,4-dihydroxy-2-naphthoate (DHN), 2-succinylbenzoate (SB) and its dilactone, whereas the minor group (2 mutants) only responded to DHN. DHN was at least five times more effective than SB but it inhibited growth at concentrations greater than 10 μm. For anaerobic growth on glucose minimal medium the auxotrophs responded to much lower concentrations of DHN and SB and these intermediates could be replaced by uracil. Anaerobic growth tests showed that glycerol, formate and H2 are good substrates for E. coli when fumarate is the ultimate electron acceptor but growth with lactate or with fumarate alone is poor. ::: All 15 men mutations were located between glpT and purF at approximately 49 min in the E. coli linkage map. Cotransduction frequencies with relevant markers were: nalA (21%), glpT (35%) and purF (15%). The presence of at least three genetically distinct classes (menC and menD, SB-requirers; menB, DHN-requirers) was indicated using abortive transduction as a complementation test and three-factor genetic analysis. The relative orientation nalA…menC-(D, B)…purF was indicated. ::: Fluoroacetate-resistant mutants were isolated and four different classes were identified: ack, lacking acetate kinase; pta, lacking phosphotransacetylase; facA, lacking both of these activities; and facB, which retained both of these enzyme activities. Some of the pta mutants and all of the facA mutants failed to grow on media containing fumarate as terminal electron acceptor or anaerobically on glucose minimal medium. All four types had genetic lesions clustered between the men and purF sites. Average cotransduction frequencies with relevant markers were: nalA (4%), men (27 to 35%) and purF (71 to 80%).
Fifteen independent menaquinone biosynthesis mutants (men) of Escherichia coli K12, selected for their inability to use fumarate as terminal electron acceptor, were investigated. Two nutritionally distinct groups were detected. The major group (1 3 mutants) responded to 1,4-dihydroxy-2-naphthoate (DHN), 2-succinylbenzoate (SB) and its dilactone, whereas the minor group (2 mutants) only responded to DHN. DHN was at least five times more effective than SB but it inhibited growth at concentrations greater than 10 ,UM. For anaerobic growth on glucose minimal medium the auxotrophs responded to much lower concentrations of DHN and SB and these intermediates could be replaced by uracil. Anaerobic growth tests showed that glycerol, formate and H, are good substrates for E. coli when fumarate is the ultimate electron acceptor but growth with lactate or with fumarate alone is poor.
Abstract The enzyme mediated ATP- and, to a lesser extent, CoASH-dependent synthesis of the spirodilactone of 4-(2'-carboxyphenyl)-4,4-dihydroxybutyrate from 2-succinylbenzoate has been demonstrated in membrane-free extracts of Micrococcus luteus and Escherichia coli. The suggestion is made that the spirodilactone is the product of an aberrant reaction involving a compound that is normally an intermediate in the conversion of 2-succinylbenzoate to 1,4-dihydroxy-2-naphthoate.
Chloroplasts contain a variety of terpenoid quinones and chromanols, some such as phylloquinone, a-tocopherol and plastoquinone have biological roles to play, whereas others are present as biosynthetic intermediates or as by-products in oxygen-evolving reactions e.g. / 3-, y and &tocopherols, a-tocopherolquinone, plastoquinones B and C and plastochromanol. All the tocopherols and plastoquinones arise from one aromatic precursor, homogentisate, whereas phylloquinone is derived from 2-succinylbenzoate. The terpenoid sidechains for all the compounds are probably derived by a common pathway.
Abstract From Galium mollugo cell suspension cultures, 1,4-dihydroxy-3-prenyl-2-naphtholic acid methyl ester diglucoside was isolated along with anthraquinones and mollugin. Production of the diglucoside was much increased by administering 2-succinylbenzoate to the cultures. The incorporation of 2-succinylbenzoate into lucidin-3-primeveroside, mollugin and the diglucoside in the mode so far proposed for rubiaceous anthraquinones was verified by administration of 13 C-labelled 2-succinylbenzoate to the cell cultures.
Two independent mutants of Escherichia coli K-12, selected for their inability to grow anaerobically with fumarate as the terminal electron acceptor, were shown to be deficient in menaquinone biosynthesis. In both cases, exogenously supplied 2-succinylbenzoate promoted normal anaerobic growth on a lactate plus fumarate medium. Anaerobic growth of the mutants on glucose minimal medium was impaired but could be restored to normal by adding either uracil or 2-succinylbenzoate. The addition of 2-succinylbenzoate (but not uracil) permitted the synthesis of menaquinone and demethylmenaquinone by both mutants. The menaquinone content of the parental strain grown on lactate plus fumarate was three times greater than observed after growth on glucose. Transduction studies with phage P1 showed that the two mutations are very closely linked and probably affect the same gene, menC, which is cotransducible with nalA (23%), glpT (51%), and purF (8 to 14%). The gene order nalA-nrdA-glpTA-menC-purF was indicated. The results were consistent with 2-succinylbenzoate being an intermediate in menaquinone biosynthesis and show that the gene designated menC (located at 48.65 min of the E. coli chromosome) is involved in the conversion of chorismate to 2-succinylbenzoate. It was also concluded that menaquinone is essential for electron transport to fumarate in E. coli.
