Four routes have been investigated for the preparation of 1,8-naphthyridines; a Niementowski synthesis from ethyl 2-amino-6-phenylnicotinate, a Friedlander synthesis from 2-aminonicotinaldehydes, reductive cyclisation of ethyl 2-nitro-3-pyridylmethylenemalonate, and an intramolecular nucleophilic cyclisation of 3-(3-pyridyl)-2-phenylpropylamine.
The configuration of the C-2 asymmetric centre of (—)-phenylpropylmethylamine (N-methyl-2-phenylpropylamine) has been related by a stereospecific route to that of the analogous centre of (+)-(S)-hydratropic acid. The configuration at the C-2 asymmetric centre of (—)-pipradrol (diphenylpiperid-2-ylmethanol) hydrochloride has been related by a stereospecific route to that of the analogous centre of (+)-(R)-pipecolic acid.
In order to obtain further information about the catalytic hydrogenolysis of benzyl-type compounds, the hydrogenolysis of optically active 2-methyl-2-phenylaziridine (I) over several group VIII transition metal catalysts was investigated in ethanol under ordinary pressure and at room temperature. 2-Phenylpropylamine (II) was obtained as the main product over all the catalysts. The configuration of II was inverted over the palladium catalyst. However, the hydrogenolysis over the platinum catalyst occurred with a significant retention of the configuration. Further, in the case of Raney nickel and Raney cobalt catalysts, the configurations of II were retained with the low stereoselectivities, and a small amount of 2-phenyl-2-propylamine (III) was also produced in addition to II. These results are attributable to the free-energy difference at the transition states to form π-benzyl intermediates, which depends on the affinity of these metals for the nitrogen lone-pair, the catalyst hindrance, and other factors...
Dopamine-B-hydroxylase [E.C.1.14.17.1] plays a key role in the biosynthetic interconversion of neurotransmitters. It is now demonstrated for the first time that dopamine-B-hydroxylase also catalyzes the oxygenation of an olefinic substrate, 1-phenyl-1-aminomethylethene, producing 2,3-dihydroxy-2-phenylpropylamine after acid workup. This reaction gives the normal oxygenase stoichiometry of electrons to O2 to product of 2:1:1, and is kinetically comparable to other oxygenase activities of dopamine-B-hydroxylase, with a kcat value of 10 sec-1 and a KM of 8.3 mM. 1-Phenyl-1-aminomethylethene is also a time-dependent, first-order inactivator of dopamine-B-hydroxylase. The inactivation process exhibits the characteristics of mechanism-based, irreversible inactivation, giving a KI value of 13 mM and a kinac of 0.04 min-1. The central role of dopamine-B-hydroxylase in catecholamine metabolism suggests possible pharmacological uses for olefinic inhibitors of this enzyme.
The effects of N-methyl-N-cinnamyl-2-phenylpropylamine (MRD-255) and papaverine on coronary blood flow were studied in the open-chest anesthetized dog, utilizing both the technique of coronary sinus outflow and coronary artery inflow. Cardiac work and cardiac oxygen utilization were determined. Intravenous and intraarterial administration of MRD-255 resulted in an increase in coronary blood flow of equal magnitude but longer duration than that produced by equal doses of papaverine. In addition, there was no fall in blood pressure with intravenous administration of MRD-255, as contrasted with the marked hypotensive response to papaverine at doses above 1 mg/kg body weight. Both MRD-255 and papaverine resulted in an increased coronary blood flow in the absence of significant changes in either cardiac work or cardiac oxygen utilization. The oxygen concentration of the coronary venous blood was greatly increased during the period of the increased coronary blood flow, indicating an oxygen supply far in excess of the metabolic demands of the myocardium.
2-(2-Hydroxyethyl)-N-[2-phenoxyethyl]benzamides and 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-N-[2-phenylpropyl]benzamides have been prepared from 2-phenoxyethyl- or 2-phenylpropylamines and isochroman-1-one. Applying Bischler-Napieralski reaction, a tetracyclic isoquinolino[2,1-d][1,4]benzoxazepine and a isoquinolino[1,2-a][2]benzazepine could be obtained. The titled compounds representing novel 11 membered heterocycles could be prepared by subsequent ring cleavage under Birch conditions after quaternisation with methyl iodide. They are considered to be ligands for dopamine receptors. NMR spectral data indicate different conformations for the two azacycloundecene derivatives.
Abstract As part of a study of the stereoselectivity of inhibition of the different forms of monoamine oxidase (MAO-A and MAO-B), the enantiomers of 2-phenylpropylamine, N-methyl-2-phenylpropylamine and N-methyl-N-propargyl-2-phenylpropylamine have been prepared. The K i values for each enantiomer when competitively inhibiting both MAO-A and MAO-B are reported. The enantiomers of N-methyl-N-propargyl-2-phenylpropylamine were also evaluated as irreversible inhibitors (first order rate constant [k 2 ] for formation of the covalent adduct). These compounds represent a series of enantiomers in which asymmetry is due to the presence of a hydrophobic (-CH 3 ) substituent at the carbon atom β to the amino function. The results are discussed in comparison to previous studies of similar enantiomeric compounds in which the asymmetry was present at the carbon atom α to the amino function.
The anionic telomerizations of α-methylstyrene with aliphatic secondary amines catalyzed by sodium metal, potassium metal or their alloy were investigated. In the telomerizations a secondary amine reacted as a telogen and α-methylstyrene as a taxogen. Three telomers, i. e. N, N-disubstituted 2-phenylpropylamine, N, N-disubstituted 2-methyl-2, 4-diphenylpentylamine and N, N-disubstituted 2, 4-dimethyl-2, 4, 6-triphenylheptylamine were separated from mixture of the produced telomers under vacuum distillation. Compositions of the products were greatly affected by reaction temperature. Proton NMR spectra of these telomers in carbon tetrachloride were consistent with the expected structural formulas. The reaction scheme was proposed to explain the formation of telomers.
