The adenosine A2A receptor has emerged as a possible target for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Evidence suggests that antagonism of the A2A receptor not only improves the symptoms of the disease but may also protect against the underlying degenerative processes. We have recently reported that several known adenosine A2A receptor antagonists (A2A antagonists) also are moderate to very potent inhibitors of monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B). The most potent among these was (E)-8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine (CSC), a compound frequently used when examining the in vivo pharmacological effects of A2A antagonists. Since MAO-B inhibitors are also thought to possess antiparkinsonian properties, dual targeting drugs that block both MAO-B and A2A receptors may have enhanced therapeutic potential in the treatment of PD. In this study, we prepared selected analogues of CSC in an attempt to examine specific structural features that may be important for potent MAO-B inhibition. The results of a SAR study established that the potency of MAO-B inhibition by (E)-8-styrylcaffeinyl analogues depends upon the van der Waals volume (V(w)), lipophilicity (pi), and the Hammett constant (sigma(m)) of the substituents attached to C-3 of the phenyl ring of the styryl moiety. Potency also varies with substituents attached to C-4 with bulkiness (V(w)) and lipophilicity (pi) being the principal substituent descriptors.
We have recently reported that a series of (E)-8-styrylcaffeines and (E)-2-styrylbenzimidazoles are moderate to very potent competitive inhibitors of monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B). The most potent member of the series was found to be (E)-8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine (CSC) with an enzyme-inhibitor dissociation constant (K(i) value) of 128 nM. In the present study, we have prepared additional caffeine and benzimidazole analogues in an attempt to identify compounds with improved MAO-B inhibition potency while still acting reversibly. The most potent inhibitor among the caffeine analogues was (E)-8-(3,4-dichlorostyryl)caffeine with a K(i) value of 36 nM, approximately 3.5 times more potent than CSC. The most potent inhibitor among the benzimidazole analogues was (E)-2-(4-trifluoromethylstyryl)-1-methylbenzimidazole with a K(i) value of 430 nM. An SAR analysis indicated that the potency of MAO-B inhibition by (E)-2-styryl-1-methylbenzimidazole analogues depended upon the Taft steric parameter (E(s)) of the substituents attached to C-4 of the styryl phenyl ring. Substituents with a large degree of steric hindrance appear to enhance inhibition potency. The proposal that potent MAO-B inhibition by (E)-8-styrylcaffeines and (E)-2-styrylbenzimidazoles can be explained by a mode of binding that involves traversing both the entrance and substrate cavities was supported by the finding that 1-methylbenzimidazole only weakly inhibited MAO-B with a K(i) value of 2084 microM. Without the styryl side chain, 1-methylbenzimidazole is not expected to be able to bind simultaneously to both the entrance and substrate cavities.
Recent preclinical and clinical data suggest that A 2A antagonist may provide a complementary therapy for PD [11, 15, 16] . Furthermore the A 2A receptor participates as a neuroprotector agent [12, 14, 15] . The (E)-8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine (CSC) has been employed as a selective inhibitor of the A 2A subtype of adenosine receptor [17] . However several analogues of CSC act as inhibitors of monoamino oxidase B (MAOB) [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] . Because of their role in the metabolism of monoamines and the inhibition of MAOB, CSC is being used in preclinical studies for treatment of symptoms of PD [20] [21] [22] [23] .
A systematic modification of the caffeinyl core and substituents of the reference compound (E)-8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine led to the 9-deazaxanthine derivative (E)-6-(4-chlorostyryl)-1,3,5,-trimethyl-1H-pyrrolo[3,2-d]pyrimidine-2,4-(3H,5H)-dione (17f), which acts as a dual human A2a antagonist/MAO-B inhibitor (Ki(A2A) = 260 nM; IC50(MAO-B) = 200 nM; IC50(MAO-A) = 10 μM) and dose dependently counteracts haloperidol-induced catalepsy in mice from 30 mg/kg by the oral route. The compound is the best balanced A2A antagonist/MAO-B inhibitor reported to date, and it could be considered as a new lead in the field of anti-Parkinson’s agents. A number of analogues of 17f were synthesized and qualitative SARs are discussed. Two analogues of 17f, namely 18b and 19a, inhibit MAO-B with IC50 of 68 and 48 nM, respectively, being 5–7-fold more potent than the prototypical MAO-B inhibitor deprenyl (IC50 = 334 nM).
Previous studies have shown that (E)-8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine (CSC) is a specific reversible inhibitor of human monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) and does not bind to human MAO-A. Since the small molecule isatin is a natural reversible inhibitor of both MAO-B and MAO-A, (E)-5-styrylisatin and (E)-6-styrylisatin analogues were synthesized in an attempt to identify inhibitors with enhanced potencies and specificities for MAO-B. The (E)-styrylisatin analogues were found to exhibit higher binding affinities than isatin with the MAO preparations tested. The (E)-5-styrylisatin analogues bound more tightly than the (E)-6 analogue although the latter exhibits the highest MAO-B selectivity. Molecular docking studies with MAO-B indicate that the increased binding affinity exhibited by the (E)-styrylisatin analogues, in comparison to isatin, is best explained by the ability of the styrylisatins to bridge both the entrance cavity and the substrate cavity of the enzyme. Experimental support for this model is shown by the weaker binding of the analogues to the Ile199Ala mutant of human MAO-B. The lower selectivity of the (E)-styrylisatin analogues between MAO-A and MAO-B, in contrast to CSC, is best explained by the differing relative geometries of the aromatic rings for these two classes of inhibitors.
