Abstract Copolymers of α-phenyl-o-nitrobenzylacrylate or α-methyl-o-nitrobenzyl acrylate with methyl methacrylate (denoted as CP—αPo NBA-MMA and CP—αMo NBA-MMA) and corresponding model compounds [α-phenyl-o-nitrobenzyl isobutyrate (αPo NBI) and benzoate (α P NBB), and α-methyl-o-nitrobenzyl isobutyrate (α Mo NBI) and benzoate (α Mo NBB)] were irradiated in dilute solutions in various solvents with 20 nsec flashes of 347 nm light. The kinetics of the decay of nitronic acid formed during the flash were studied. Nitronic acid of compounds possessing phenyl in the α-position underwent the rearrangement more rapidly than that from compounds having methyl in the α-position. The extent of acceleration depended on the solvent in the order CH2Cl2 > benzene > CH3CN. In acetonitrile solution a kinetic polymer effect was found with CP—α Po NBA-MMA: non-exponential decay of nitronic acid in the case of the copolymer and exponential decay in the case of the model compounds. This polymer effect is explained in terms of rather strong intramolecular interactions between phenyl groups of different repeating units leading to an augmentation of the accelerating action. In benzene and dichloromethane solution, the decay was exponential indicating the predominance of the interaction between solvent and phenyl over that between phenyl groups.
Abstract α-Methyl-o-nitrobenzyl isobutyrate and copolymers containing α-methyl-o-nitrobenzyl acrylate were irradiated in dilute solution with 20 ns flashes of 347 nm light or with 60 ps flashes of 355 nm light. The formation of the absorption spectrum of a nitronic acid with τ = 5 ns was observed in each case. A transient absorption spectrum similar to that of the nitronic acid was formed with τ ⩽ 0.5 ns. This spectrum is assumed to belong either to the triplet biradical formed upon intramolecular triplet state hydrogen abstraction or to nitronic acid formed very rapidly by intramolecular singlet state hydrogen abstraction, the latter mechanism being operative in parallel with the triplet mechanism. In 60vol.%EtOH-40vol.%H2O the nitronate anion was formed by dissociation of the nitronic acid with τ = 3 μs as indicated by a build-up of a new absorption band with λmax = 420 nm and by an increase in electrical conductivity. The conversion into the end products (nitroso compound and carboxylic acid) occurred at a much faster rate from the nitronic acid than from the nitronate anion: τ = 80 μs (CH2Cl2), τ = 360 μs (60vol.%EtOH-40.vol.%H2O, 10−4 M H2SO4) and τ = 10 ms (60vol.%EtOH-40vol.%H2O, no H2SO4). Conversion of the nitronate anion into another transient was inferred from the partial decrease in the electrical conductivity (τ ≈ 15 μs). Irradiation of the copolymers gave the same results as for the low molecular weight model compound, indicating that there is no polymer effect with respect to the kinetics or the mechanism of the photorearrangement. This conclusion was substantiated by the quantum yields for acid formation (0.24 – 0.25) measured with both the model compound and the copolymers.
Dimethylketen reacts with CN-diphenylnitrone to form the 1 : 1- and 2 : 1-adducts 2-(2-benzylideneiminophenyl)-2-methylpropanoic acid (IXa) and α(3,3-dimethyl-2-oxoindol-1-yl)benzyl isobutyrate (IIIa), respectively. Similar adducts are formed from C-phenyl-N-(o-tolyl)nitrone.
Odoriferous substance mixture comprising organoleptically effective amounts that isobutyrate and 3-methylbenzyl 2,2-dimethyl-3- (3-methylphenyl) propanol, wherein the weight ratio of 3-methylbenzyl isobutyrate and 2,2-dimethyl -3- (3-methylphenyl) propanol is in the range from 1: 1000 to 1: 5.
A toxicologic and dermatologic review of α-methylbenzyl isobutyrate when used as a fragrance ingredient is presented. α-Methylbenzyl isobutyrate is a member of the fragrance structural group Aryl Alkyl Alcohol Simple Acid Esters (AAASAE). The AAASAE fragrance ingredients are prepared by reacting an aryl alkyl alcohol with a simple carboxylic acid (a chain of 1-4 carbons) to generate formate, acetate, propionate, butyrate, isobutyrate and carbonate esters. This review contains a detailed summary of all available toxicology and dermatology papers that are related to this individual fragrance ingredient and is not intended as a stand-alone document. Available data for α-methylbenzyl isobutyrate were evaluated, then summarized, and includes physical properties data. A safety assessment of the entire AAASAE will be published simultaneously with this document. Please refer to Belsito et al. (2012) for an overall assessment of the safe use of this material and all AAASAE in fragrances.
Using the catalytic transformation of isobutyl benzoate at 663 K in the presence of 12 % MnO2/γ-Al2O3 in a He atmosphere as an example, it has been shown that the inverse Tishchenko reaction can take place at a temperature above 600 K. Isobutyl benzoate gives isobutanal and benzaldehyde as well as products of their transformation,i.e., benzyl isobutyrate, isobutanol, benzyl alcohol, and toluene.
A toxicologic and dermatologic review of benzyl isobutyrate when used as a fragrance ingredient is presented. Benzyl isobutyrate is a member of the fragrance structural group Aryl Alkyl Alcohol Simple Acid Esters (AAASAE). The AAASAE fragrance ingredients are prepared by reacting an aryl alkyl alcohol with a simple carboxylic acid (a chain of 1-4 carbons) to generate formate, acetate, propionate, butyrate, isobutyrate and carbonate esters. This review contains a detailed summary of all available toxicology and dermatology papers that are related to this individual fragrance ingredient and is not intended as a stand-alone document. Available data for benzyl isobutyrate were evaluated, then summarized, and includes: physical properties, acute toxicity, skin irritation, or skin sensitization data. A safety assessment of the entire AAASAE will be published simultaneously with this document. Please refer to Belsito et al. (2012) for an overall assessment of the safe use of this material and all AAASAE in fragrances.
