The aerial parts of the plant artemisia herba were collected in the May 2007 from Babaaman (North Khorassan Province of Iran). The plant was isolated by hydro distillation. A total of 61 constituents, representing more than 98% of the oil were identified by gas chromatograph/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). The main compounds, were alpha-pinene (3.28%), champhene (4.8%), sabinen (5.18%), beta-myrcene (3.04), cis,beta-terpineol (11.31%), camphor (6.11%), 8-hydroxylinalool (2.64%), L-4-terpineol ( 2.5%), alpha- therpineol (2.33%), myrtenol (3.27%), bornyl acetate (6.2%), alpha-terpinol acetate (3.06%), germacrene (2.06%), davanone (8.49%), trans-farnesol (4.27%), cis-fernesol (2.07%) and 1,3,dicyclopentyl cyclopentane (2.29%). This herbal medicine traditionally uses as anti-infectious, anti-bacterial, emmenagogue, parasiticide, digestive and stomachic and gastric tonic in Iran.
The aerial parts of the plant artemisia herba were collected in the May 2007 from Babaaman (North Khorassan Province of Iran). The plant was isolated by hydro distillation. A total of 61 constituents, representing more than 98% of the oil were identified by gas chromatograph/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). The main compounds, were alpha-pinene (3.28%), champhene (4.8%), sabinen (5.18%), beta-myrcene (3.04), cis,beta-terpineol (11.31%), camphor (6.11%), 8-hydroxylinalool (2.64%), L-4-terpineol ( 2.5%), alpha-therpineol (2.33%), myrtenol (3.27%), bornyl acetate (6.2%), alpha-terpinol acetate (3.06%), germacrene (2.06%), davanone (8.49%), trans-farnesol (4.27%), cis-fernesol (2.07%) and 1,3,dicyclopentyl cyclopentane (2.29%). This herbal medicine traditionally uses as antiinfectious, anti-bacterial, emmenagogue, parasiticide, digestive and stomachic and gastric tonic in Iran.
The essential oil of Leptospermum flavescens leaves and twigs has been studied. The distillation techniques used were water distillation and water and steam distillation in order to determine the most suitable technique. The essential oil of the twigs and leaves are of the same type. Linalyl acetate, beta-terpineol, terpineol-4 and borneol are the major constituents of the oils and present in different quantities. The high content of linalyl acetate (34.44%) showed that the oil could become a new source of linalyl acetate. The result of the two distillation technique showed the significant difference in the leaves
The expression of defensive compounds derived from secondary metabolism in plants of Eucalyptus globulus Labill, and the persistence of these in vegetative propagation was evaluated by gas chromatography with flame ionization (GC-FID) and mass spectrometry (MS). The plants were induced by attack from the insect Ctenarytaina eucalypti ("blue gum psyllid") and by mechanical damage. Defense responses were activated in plants for the different types of tested induction. We identified four defensive compounds present in the leaves of plants induced in entomological form (beta-terpineol, aromadendrene, caryophyllene-oxide and eremophilene); all remained in the vegetative propagation. After mechanical induction, we identified three compounds (beta-terpineol, aromadendrene and ledol), of which ledol and aromadendrene persisted in the vegetative propagation. Virtually all the compounds detected, in addition to persisting in the vegetative propagation, showed specificity for the induction type, whether entomological or mechanical, except for aromadendrene, which was expressed in both types of induction.
Abstract Objective To identify the chemical composition and larvicidal activity of Acorus calamus ( A. calamus ) rhizome essential oil against the filarial vector mosquito, Culex quinquefasciatus ( Cx. quinquefasciatus ). Methods Essential oil was isolated by hydro-distillation and the chemical composition of the oil was analysed by gas chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectroscopy analysis. The larvicidal activity of the essential oil was analysed at different concentrations, viz ., 12.5, 25.0, 50.0, 100.0 and 200.0 mL/L. Early 4th instar larvae were used for the larvicidal assay. The larval mortality was calculated after 24 h of the exposure. Results The gas chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectroscopy analysis showed that the essential oil extracted from the rhizome of A. calamus contained 20 chemical compounds representing about 99.99% of the total oil. Beta-asarone (33.36%), cis -beta-terpineol (23.44%), limonene (13.08%), carvone (5.64%) and amyl isovalerate (4.92%) were identified as the major chemical compounds. The essential oil had promising larvicidal effect against the early 4th instar larvae of Cx. quinquefasciatus with LC 50 value of 63.43 mL/L and LC 90 value of 145.95 mL/L. Conclusion The essential oil of A. calamus rhizome can be used as a natural larvicidal agent against the larvae of filarial vector mosquito, Cx. quinquefasciatus .
The essential oil obtained by hydrodistillation of the rhizomes of Amomum cannicarpum was analyzed by GC and GC/MS. Thirty-four compounds were identified, of which the major components were beta-terpineol (13.4%), beta-pinene (9.4%) and alpha-pinene (6.9%). The essential oil showed significant antimicrobial activity.
beta-Terpineol, a minor constituent of commercial terpineol as well as some essential oils, is a mixture of cis and trans isomers, separation of which by physical or chemical methods is laborious. A direct, simple synthesis of trans-beta-terpineol from (+)-limonene via its trans-1,2-oxide is described in which (+)-limonene is reacted with N-bromosuccinimide in acetone solution to yield (1S, 2S 4R)-2-bromo 1-hydroxy-P-menth-8-ene. This is then transformed to the epoxide in the presence of a base and the epoxide is reduced using lithium aluminium hydride to give trans-beta-terpineol exclusively.
