Abstract A study is described of the reaction of trimethylbromosilane and trimethyliodosilane with various esters of phosphorothioic and phosphoroselenoic acids of general structures (RO) 2 (RY)P=O (I) and (RO) 3 P=Y (II) (Y = S or Se, R = alkyl). The reaction results in replacement of the R groups by trimethylsilyl groups. No S -trimethylsilyl and Se -trimethylsilyl substituted esters were found among the products. Thus the displacement of the O -R group in II as well as the replacement of S -organyl or Se -organyl groups in I both lead to the corresponding O -trimethylsilyl isomer containing thiophosphoryl or selenophosphoryl groups. The following sequence of reactivity of the ester groups was observed: Download full-size image The process involves initially the reversible formation of a phosphonium salt intermediate in a fast step, followed by slow dealkylation. It was shown by low temperature 31 P FT-NMR studies that in the reaction of trimethyliodosilane with an ester bearing a P=O phosphoryl group, the equilibrium for the phosphonium salt formation lies well over towards the intermediate and so the intermediate can be observed directly. These mechanistic proposals were confirmed by conductance studies on the reaction system and by investigation of the stereochemical course of the corresponding reaction of an optically-active model thiophosphonate. In some cases the reaction of the halosilanes with the phosphates takes a selective course which allows the reaction to be used as a convenient route to O -silyl substituted esters of phosphorothioic or phosphoroselenoic acids.
The first example of a 1-phosphoroselenoate of a 2-deoxy sugar has been obtained by three independent routes: (A) selenophosphorylation of 3,4,6-tri-O-acetyl-2-deoxy-D-arabino-hexopyranose (4) with selenophosphorochloridate (5) followed by selenono–selenolo isomerization; (B) condensation of 3,4,6-tri-O-acetyl-2-deoxy-α-D-arabino-hexopyranosyl bromide (8) with O,O-dialkylphosphoroselenoate (9), and (C) addition of O,O-dialkylphosphoroselenoic acid (11) to 3,4,6-tri-O-acetyl-D-glucal (1). All these reactions proceed with high yield and full stereoselectivity to afford the α-selenophosphate of 2-deoxy-D-arabino-hexopyranose (7). It has been shown that the selenono–selenolo isomerization (6)→(7) which occurs in route (A) proceeds via the intermediate 2-deoxyglycosyl chloride (12). This finding confirms the mechanism proposed by Chabrier et al. for the selenono–selenolo phosphate Isomerization catalyzed by ammonium halides.
New synthetic methods for phosphoroselenoic acid derivatives bearing 1,1′-bi-2-naphthyl group and their use as new chiral molecular tools have been described. Phosphoroselenoyl chloride is prepared in high yields from PCl 3 , elemental selenium, and 1,1′-bi-2-naphthol. The conversion of the chloride to esters and amides are readily achieved by reacting with the corresponding alcohols and amines as electrophiles. The esters are obtained as a diastereomeric mixture in a ratio of almost 1:1. In 31 P and 77 Se NMR spectra, the diastereomers are discriminated even when two similar types of substituents are attached to the chiral carbon atom of the alcohols. The treatment of the amides with PBu 3 leads to phosphoramidites. The addition of H 2 O to the chloride in the presence of Et 3 N gives the phosphoroselenoic acid salt with high efficiency.
Phosphoroselenoic acid ester and amides containing binaphthoxy moiety were prepared by reacting phosphoroselenoyl chloride with alcohols and secondary amines. The resulting amides underwent fluoride-ion-mediated hydrolysis with a THF solution of tetrabutylammonium fluoride to give two types of phosphoroselenoic acid ammonium salts: one with a fluorine atom and another with a binaphthoxy group on the phosphorus atom. The ratio of these products depended on the substituents on the nitrogen atom of the amides. A similar reaction of the ester with tetrabutylammonium fluoride gave two types of ammonium salts. The formation of these products was confirmed by converting them to the corresponding methyl esters. © 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Heteroatom Chem 20:255–261, 2009; Published online in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com). DOI 10.1002/hc.20544
Enantiomerically pure phosphoroselenoyl chloride bearing a binaphthyl group was synthesized. This phosphoroselenoyl chloride was used to discriminate and resolve simple secondary alcohols. Stereospecific conversions of diastereomerically pure phosphoroselenoic acid esters, obtained by reaction of the chloride with simple secondary alcohols, to enantiomerically pure alcohols and amines were also achieved.
Optically pure phosphoroselenoyl chloride reacted with Et 3 N in the presence of H 2 O to give a phosphoroselenoic tertiary ammonium salt. Formation of the salt was confirmed by X-ray molecular structure analysis. The quaternary ammonium salt was prepared by reacting phosphoroselenoic acid 0-2-silylethyl ester with Bu 4 NF. The alkylation of tertiary ammonium salt with racemic alkyl halides gave phosphoroselenoic acid Se-esters as diastereomeric mixtures. The cleavage of Se-esters with Bu 4 NF gave optically active dialkyl diselenides.
Phosphoroselenoic acid esters with a binaphthyl group were prepared by reacting phosphoroselenoyl chloride with excess racemic secondary cyclic alcohols. While the reactions of trans-2-aryl-1-cyclohexanols, 2-pheny-1-cycloheptanols, and 2-phenyl-1-cyclooctanols proceeded with high diastereoselectivity, those of 2-alkyl-1-cylcohexanols and 2-aryl-1-cyclopentanols did not show any diastereoselectivity. The resulting diastereomeric mixtures of the esters were purified by column chromatography on silica gel to give fractions that contained only one of the diastereomers. Reduction of the separated esters gave optically active cyclic alcohols with high enantiomeric excess. Extrusion of the selenium atom of the esters with PBu3 gave optically active phosphites in high yields.
