The catalytic synthesis of N-ethyl-m-toluidine from m-toluidine and ethanol is carried out continusly in a fixed-bed reactor with catalyst of copper, zinc and aluminium oxides. The reaction proceeds under the conditions of H 2 atmospherical pressure, temperature of 240-270℃, LHSV of 8-12 h -1 , and mole ratio of ethanol/toluidine is 1.2. The single pass conversion of m-toluidine is over 90%, and the selectivity to N-ethyl-m-toluidine is in the range of 90%～95%.
Abstract Reactions of potassium pentacyanonitrosylchromate(I) monohydrate, K3[Cr(NO) (CN)5].H2O with some secondary aromatic amines, like N-ethyl-m-toluidine, N-isopropylaniline, l-n-pentyl-aniline and N-benzyl-o-phenetidine, and tertiary aromatic amines, like N,N-dimethyl-o-toluidine and N,N-diethyl-p-toluidine in aqueous acetic acid medium lead to the formation of derivative, [Cr(NO) (CN)2(L)2(H2O)] (where L = each aforesaid aromatic amine). These complexes have been characterized by elemental analyses, molar conductances, magnetic measurements, molecular weight determinations, electron spin resonance and infrared spectral studies. Chromium(I) has a low-spin {CrNO}5 electron configuration1 in all the complexes. An octahedral structure, where CN is trans to CN and the ligands L are trans to each other in an equatorial positions, and NO is trans to water in an axial position, has been proposed for the complexes.
Detection of aromatic amines without derivatization was carried out using a new solid-phase microextraction fiber coated with 25,27-dihydroxy-26,28-(1′,10′-dioxo-4′,7′-diaza-3′,8′-dioxooctamethylene)-p-tert-butylcalix[4]arene (amide bridged-C[4]). The new fiber shows excellent selectivity and sensitivity for the tested amines (aniline, o-toluidine, 2,4-dimethylaniline, 3,4-dimethylaniline, N-ethyl-m-toluidine, and N,N-diethylaniline). The coating has high thermal stability (up to 380 °C) and solvent stability. Experimental conditions, such as extraction temperature and time, pH and ionic strength were optimized. The method proposed here shows good linearity and low detection limits ranged from 1.2 to 40 ng.L−1. Application of this method was demonstrated through the determination of aromatic amines in wastewater from a pharmaceutical plant.
New aromatic methacrylates were prepared by substitution of a methylene group from diethylaminoethyl methacrylate (DEAEM) by an aromatic ring at two different positions. Diethylamino benzyl methacrylate (DEABM) and N-methacryloyloxyethyl)-N-ethyl-m-toluidine (MEET) were polymerized and incorporated as co-monomers in bone cement formulations. Cements were evaluated in terms of curing and mechanical properties in addition to changes in their glass transition temperature by DSC and surface properties by contact angle measurements. The immediate effect of the presence of an aromatic ring within the amino methacrylate was that it modified the bone cements' physical appearance, as colored products were obtained. It was also observed that peak temperature increased and setting time decreased by the use of DEABM and MEET instead of DEAEM. Simultaneously, both tensile and compressive strength of bone cements were improved; this effect was related to a higher glass transition temperature. In addition, surface prope...
The electric dipole moments of di-s-butylamine, 2,3-dichloroaniline, N-ethyl-o-toluidine, and N-ethyl-m-toluidine have been determined in benzene and carbon tetrachloride at 30 °C. The effect of solvents on the dipole moments has been examined in the light of Higasi's theory of solute–solvent interaction. The molecular moments have also been calculated by vector-summation methods and the results discussed in terms of the molecular configuration.
The standard (po=0.1 MPa) molar enthalpies of combustion atT=298.15 K were measured by static bomb combustion calorimetry for liquidN,N-diethylaniline,N,N-dimethyl-m-toluidine,N,N-dimethyl-p-toluidine, andN-ethyl-m-toluidine. Vaporization enthalpies forN,N-dimethyl-m-toluidine andN-ethyl-m-toluidine were determined by correlation gas chromatography. Derived standard molar values of δfH m o (g) at 298.15 K forN,N-diethylaniline (62.1±7.6);N,N-dimethyl-m-toluidine (72.6±7.3),N,N-dimentyl-p-toluidine (68.9±7.4),N-ethyl-m-toluidine (30.5±3.8 kJ· mol−1) were obtained.
Quinonedichlorodiimide (I) reacts with aromatic secondary and tertiary amines to yield green colored compounds. The chemical structure of these colored compounds is investigated from the spectral data (infrared, ultraviolet, nuclear magnetic resonance, mass) and the chemical reactions. The color of the reaction product of I and N-ethyl-m-toluidine (II) or N, N-diethyl-m-toluidine (III) is changed mutually between green and violet by oxidation and reduction. These results and the spectral data suggest that these reactions are electrophilic displacement reactions in the ortho or para position of the alkylamino group and I reacts with II or III at the rate of 1 : 2.
Three solid-phase microextraction (SPME) fibers prepared by the sol-gel method, containing hydroxydibenzo-14-crown-4 (OH-DB14C4), dihydroxy-substituted saturated urushiol crown ether (DHSU14C4) and 3,5-dibutyl-unsymmetry-dibenzo-14-crown-4-dihydroxy crown ether (DBUD14C4), respectively, were evaluated for the determination of aromatic amine (aniline, m-toluidine, N,N-diethylaniline, N-ethyl-m-toluidine, 3,4-dimethylaniline). The sol-gel-derived hydroxy-dibenzo14-crown-4-coated fiber has the best affinity for several aniline derivatives. Optimization was carried out for the determination of aromatic amines with SPME fibers. The linearity was from 0.11 to 29 microg/ml and detection limits varied from 0.17 to 0.98 ng/ml. Relative standard deviation (n=5) was found to be 3.23-6.20%. The coating proved to be very stable at high temperature (to 340 degrees C) and in different solvents (organic and inorganic). The method was applied to the determination of aromatic amines in wastewater samples from a pharmaceutical factory.
