Despite extensive efforts spanning multiple decades, the development of highly effective Ca 2+ sensitizers for the heart remains an elusive goal. Existing Ca 2+ sensitizers have other targets in addition to cardiac troponin (cTn), which can lead to adverse side effects, such as hypotension or arrhythmias. Thus, there is a need to design Ca 2+ -sensitizing drugs with higher affinity and selectivity for cTn. Previously, we determined that many compounds based on diphenylamine (DPA) were able to bind to a cTnC-cTnI chimera with moderate affinity (K d ∼10-120 µM). Of these compounds, 3-chlorodiphenylamine (3-Cl-DPA) bound most tightly (K d of 10 µM). Here, we investigate 3-Cl-DPA further and find that it increases the Ca 2+ sensitivity of force development in skinned cardiac muscle. Using NMR, we show that, like the known Ca 2+ sensitizers, trifluoperazine (TFP) and bepridil, 3-Cl-DPA is able to bind to the isolated N-terminal domain (N-domain) of cTnC (K d of 6 µM). However, while the bulky molecules of TFP and bepridil stabilize the open state of the N-domain of cTnC, the small and flexible 3-Cl-DPA molecule is able to bind without stabilizing this open state. Thus, unlike TFP, which drastically slows the rate of Ca 2+ dissociation from the N-domain of isolated cTnC in a dose-dependent manner, 3-Cl-DPA has no effect on the rate of Ca 2+ dissociation. On the other hand, the affinity of 3-Cl-DPA for a cTnC-TnI chimera is at least an order of magnitude higher than that of TFP or bepridil, likely because 3-Cl-DPA is less disruptive of cTnI binding to cTnC. Therefore, 3-Cl-DPA has a bigger effect on the rate of Ca 2+ dissociation from the entire cTn complex than TFP and bepridil. Our data suggest that 3-Cl-DPA activates the cTn complex via a unique mechanism and could be a suitable scaffold for the development of novel treatments for systolic heart failure.
The high-performance liquid-chromatography (HPLC) procedure requires only minutes per sample, is specific, and is relatively sensitive (limit of detection < 0.005 mg/L for both chemicals). A combined buffer (pH 4) and internal standard (3-chlorodiphenylamine) reagent is added to the water sample, which is injected through a Sep Pak C18 disposable cartridge. The cartridge adsorbs and retains both the lampricides and the internal standard. The quantitative elution of the three chemicals from the cartridge with a small volume of methanol effectively concentrates the sample and provides sample cleanup. The methanol extract is then analyzed directly by HPLC on an MCH 10 reverse phase column by using a methanol:0.01 mol/L acetate buffer (87:13, v:v) as the mobile phase at 2 mL/min and detected by ultraviolet spectrophotometry at 330 (or 254) nm. A microprocessor data system further facilitates the procedure by quantifying off-scale peaks and yielding results directly in units of concentration (mg/L).Key words: ...
Abstract Two bacterial glycolipids were applied for the bioremediation of mono-halogenated aromatic compounds in soil. 4-Chloro-1-naphthol (CN) and 3-chlorodiphenylamine (CDA) were rinsed from a polluted soil sample using a biosurfactant, rhamnolipid. Deemulsification by pH adjustment to 4.0 resulted in about 90% recovery of CN and CDA in an organic solvent fraction which was finally solidified by evaporation. For the bioremediation of the aqueous phase, a bacterial glycoglycerolipid, di- O -12-methyl-tetradecanoyl-3- O -β- d -galactopyranosyl- sn -glycerol was used to decrease the level of cellular damage induced by the effects of oxygen radical of the intermediate metabolites of CN and CDA. The glycoglycerolipid at a concentration of 100 mg/ l increased the cellular resistance to those CN and CDA approximately three fold. Instead of the addition of purified glycoglycerolipid, a 0.1%-volume addition of the culture supernatant of a glycoglycerolipid producer to active sludge was also effective.
The N-substituted derivatives exhibit an additional property of the comparable conductivity to that of PANI. In comparison with PANI, the copolymers of aniline with phenyl-substituted or N-substituted aniline derivatives show better solubility, decreased conductivity, disordered structure, and enhanced electrochemical stability [10] [11] [12] [13] . The polymer of diphenylamine (DPA), a N-aryl substituted aniline derivative, possesses the properties between PANI and poly (p-phenylene). DPA has been polymerized by Comisso et al. [14] in a mixture of 4 M H 2 SO 4 and ethanol, in which ethanol was used as co-solvent to lead to the dissolution of oligomeric products and to hinder the growth of poly(diphenylamine) (PDPA) on electrode surface. Also, some reports can be available on the polymerization of N-alkyl diphenylamine, 3-methoxy diphenylamine and 3-chlorodiphenylamine [15, 16] . The obtained polymers have been found to have the C-C phenyl-phenyl coupling in their backbone. Recently, Wu et al. [17] have reported the electrochemical copolymerization of DPA with anthranilic acid and used X-ray photon spectroscopy to confirm the formation of the copolymer. Poly(DPA-co-aniline) [18] has been synthesized by pulse potentiostatic technique and a possible growth scheme has been proposed correlating the conditions of copolymerization with the charge associated with film deposition. Santhosh and coworkers [19] have studied the electrochemical copolymerization of DPA with m-toluidine (MT), and found that the electronic transitions as noticed from the in situ UV-Vis spectra recorded during electropolymerization with different molar feed concentration ratios of DPA depend on molar compositions of DPA and MT units in the co-polymer. Also, the electrochemical copolymerization of DPA with 2,5-diaminobenzene sulphonic acid (DABSA) has been reported, the intermediates formed during the electrochemical copolymerization have been followed through the in situ UV-visible studies [20] . And, Wu's research group [21] have reported the formation of the short-lived intermediates, showing the absorption peaks at 310 nm and 500 nm in the UV-Vis regions for their electronic states, during the electrochemical oxidation of DPA in 2 M H 2 SO 4 medium by using the in situ spectroelectrochemical procedure.
